Gardner-Webb University  
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University  
The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957  
John R. Dover Memorial Library  

1892  

Volume 10, Number 12 (December 1892)  
Theodore Presser  

Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude  
Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons  

Recommended Citation  
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 10, No. 12. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, December 1892. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/11  

This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.
The text on the image reads:

THE ETUDE  
PHILADELPHIA, PA., DECEMBER, 1892.  
A Monthly Publication for the Teacher and Student of Music.

Vol. X.  
PHILADELPHIA, PA., DECEMBER, 1892.  
NO. 12

THE ETUDE.  
PHILADELPHIA, PA., DECEMBER, 1892.

**Musical Items.**

HOME.  
Master Cyril Tyler, the boy soprano, has captured the stage.  
Numerous opera have been written with Christopher Columbus as the hero.  
Frank Van Tuyl has been elected to follow "Parfite" to the stage of the World's Fair.  
Dr. A. D. Braverman has funded about 3000 Expositions, an arrival in New York.

Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Hermann made an instant decision in their recent issues in Philadelphia.  
The Boston Symphony Orchestra is maintaining its high standard in every regard.

There are rumors of a visit this summer from Harvard Glee Club; it is to be hoped that it will prove true.  
In a letter to Dr. William Mason, Paderewski declined his intention of arriving in this country about December 1.

One month since my return from San Francisco is nearly in November. They open in Toledo, Ohio.  
The Social Society here is less fervent by a portico which considerably helps the Academy of Music, New York.

Yale recently held Dr. Dow's concert at his "Requiem" with other notable works from the Society of Music Hall, Boston.  
M. B. Poussin of Pittsburgh has finished his Spanish ode, "To Briar". It is hard to catch its melody.  
Mrs. A. Strathmore is planning two piano recitals: one in New York and the other in the suburbs.

Stephen Heller has published the lectures explanatory of his meetings at the Boston Symphony Orchestra.  
Clement D. Veni, Tasso Campanini, and Edward Remenyi, have joined forces for a concert tour. It will be a strong combination, receiving $500 for his services for the World’s Fair. Paderewski, who is writing, receives $1,000 for the text.  
Mr. Mascagni has just celebrated his fiftieth birthday.  
Mascagni has finished his fourth opera, "William Tell".  
Mr. Mascagni's next work is very enjoyable. Full information can be published by addressing Ed. Buey, Paris, Reading.  
Mr. Mascagni has been advised to rehearse a new production.

That great writer, whose name is not one of the featured members in Vienna is very filled with relief expenses.  
A special performance of the World's Fair building took place last month under the management of the largest productions, which are displaying, but during the length of the program are too tiresome to be adduced.

The following music was disturbingly listed:  
Master Pablo Sera of the World’s Fair building showed to be expected with feverish enthusiasm.  
It is really a high book collection that has not been entirely transferred to the World stage.

The Advent Dvorak made his debut in New York with a program of real success and could be played with joy.  
The reception continued in good spirits and anti-pirate hopes persisted.  
Jose’ de Gualtieri, flamboyant composer, wielded an unforgettable score for future Bay ahead.

Mr. Liszt will write arrangements that are fresh owing to the mask meetings in New York.  
Mademoiselle Pelissett is planning for a grand opera concert, for the good of the American, especially for Mrs. Adams and many others, which include Aires, Electra, genial Gabriella, Martha Chalam and Chiara-Dokap.

The final performance of the Grieg English translation is sure soon to open.  
The confirmed program of artists is scheduled in spring.

More details are very soon to happen regarding those theatrical management projects. 
Much more can be expected about Jose’ Hoffmann as being a ferocious resolution that stirs excitement in Brooklyn's performances.

Madame Adler had decided that Josef Hoffmann would preview in active rhythm next season.  
That season has caused a frenzy attention with many charming and loud impressions.  
Heinrich Barr has joined forces with Masaniello in Spain.  
There have also been selected musical works to perform in South America.

Richard Linderman will conduct a grand concert tour with the great Leontovich, which will start in 1885.  
Several Rock musicians are mingling in sound episodes that accompany exciting projects. 
These energetic concerts are respectively arranged throughout New York and proceed by eminent leaders for expert musicians.

Ernest Leoncavallo must be examined for an extensive orchestral masterpieces.
EDITORIAL NOTES.  
BY CHARLES W. LANDON.  
Literary Editor of The Stud.

Honesty, the best naturalist and traveler, says, "There is nothing impossible if we rightly think." The way to do this is to adhere to the true principles of study and method. The means to reach the highest understanding of all the subjects under consideration must be worked with the greatest skill of knowledge, capacity, and will. The young teacher, mentioned by Humboldt, will avail in his holding.

The work is complete and self-sustaining until the keynotes are in its place, and although some may be angry with criticism, which will never please, you may lose professional respect for your actions. Having been in the position of taking another’s sole business for the first time, we must thoroughly tell a working man, “You have a chance to win a scholarly man.”

How seldom frequent is professional failure! Many who were fondly aware of their profession by their school are fondly blamed because of their very great and fierce neglect to point out their own ethical character in a time-worn point. It was said to write right, in word perception of another’s feelings, other than their own great character, their life, finally resulted in more or less complete failure.

The most common cause of failure is this over-assertion of self-reliance. No connection to unison is remedial in its vein, taking on the "exhibition" of himself. This fatal weakness is exhibited in his lack of method. The young teacher is highly or lightly convinced that it is not enough to produce an alternate skill of lecture or discipline. None can rightly view old people who can condemn, but so long to jump in arguments. He proceeds to fall into the same style of presentation. He has been told that his "spell of inspiration" is a way to engage in profuse study and induce a feeling of constant delight, belief, and activity in his artistic minds.

After all, what is pointed out is significantly highlighted, and has brought to its fullest development, two teachers who dance in the vigil. Those have graceful working, and it takes will-power to not descend to ground-glass nothingness. Distinguished people resolve different directions with a little expectation that helps learn, as we can return — it cannot become difficult, to be like the young sage, “Never endure, be endure.”

The failure is teaching one or two people who are sufficiently distracting, making it more desirable this end to speak on external literature. The writer has visited...

We would be grateful to our readers for any additional thoughts on the work of teaching. Even though we miss the summer, we certainly can reflect on the work of our great editorial results. Without this value, the work of thinking cannot be embodied in the excellent shape we truly expect to receive. We keep a sharp lookout for all things in their interesting and exciting thoughts. 

THOROUGHNESS IN TEACHING.  
BY JAMES E. TAYLOR.

The need of system and thoroughness is plainer than ever. Those who have aspired to be teachers and who have had the rare experience to teach long find that their students may not catch on. While there are many points of failure, especially outside of the larger cities, it is certainly apparent there are many more in this part of the country. A very large majority of pupils have become accustomed to a fickle foundation because they see how bright people are bright and educated in this field. 

We do not like to talk this subject—What is the trial of all this? There are two important factors of system or methods, as much of teaching is proper. It is a man or a woman. These two points of teacher as inspirer is a middle to the others. This second point is directed experience in educational methods. There are well-formed leaders. For example, let us take the cake: there was one note. For an example of the point may assist us in confirmation of practice. 

It is just this: it is not the most important issue of the years, and yet it is. From the students of teaching, we can further point upon a course of nature. The first from a former season, can, physically or impressively, point it out in this sight. It cannot be lost if we assist. It will send back their letters, as they emerge like flaming highlights.

We desire to behave as duty gleefully towards each other in teaching qualifications, providing ways to evaluate the mental stages they need, avoiding vast exaggeration.

TALENT in education is like taking medicine; it may be bitter, but it is necessary at times. 

Chronological history of the chief musicians and musical events from A.D. 1880-1885.

1678  
Francois Coppee, in Paris. Wrote some good music for the piano. 

1679  
Music Composition takes place in England and Europe. 

1680  
The first hero in England is noted.

1681  
Antonio Vivaldi, Composer.

1683  
Friedrich Erhard, a homegrown writer of chronic literature. Compiled the papers of secondary music holdings. 

1684  
Johann Sebastian Bach, one of the first notable geniuses. 

1685  
Jean Baptiste Lully, a Parisian. 

1686  
George Frideric Handel, Celebrated Violinist. 

1687  
Joseph Haydn, the composer who emerged. 

1688  
Arthur Schnabel, the German musician. 

1689  
Leopold Auer, Hungarian composer. Wrote modern music.

(Continued from the previous page.)
THE ETUDE

[For the Etude.]

THE NEGLECT OF MOZART.

It is a great pity that the passionate music of Mozart is more neglected by teachers of the piano than it deserves. The technique of piano playing has advanced considerably since the time of Wolfgang Amadeus; but note the advanced composers of today, such as Liszt, and how they have taken to concert influence. But it is sad that the elementary works of Mozart, which should be enjoyed, now exist in the background.

It is surprising, and we are rapidly falling into the error of disregarding his music. I suppose it is fashionable to speak against it. One could hardly imagine that a person like Anton Rubinstein could be writing a chronicle in which this passion is scandalously put to some superficial and unworthy test, to that of the orchestra.

Because we are blessed with instruments of magical design, it is good to consider how the composer makes use of the forces at his disposal. And let us speak of simplicity. The inconceivable beauty of the slight, ethereal melody is haunting, and it shows that it has touched every musical heart.

The simplicity, beauty, and naïveté of Mozart's piano and orchestral works should not be sidelined. His great melodies were borne from a lively clarity of emotion; profound and frail, exhibiting all the tender delicacy of life.

[For the Etude.]

SINGING FOR PIANO PUPILS.

I think that Robert Schumann’s name is synonymous with “Rule for Young Pianists” and it is good sound to review the manner in which they are taught. I believe, when students are required to sing, there must be a good reasoning behind this impromptu necessity—a distinct method of study.

But these texts on music are confined to the usual, and still limited: students cannot be shown any means to become fully equipped in approach. Progress is best when students have not only the correct attitude adjusted behind the piano, but also to the realities of their situation.

Every pupil ought to be able to sing at sight and to interpret what they hear. There is no music like “humming” when executed freely. Learners seem to express the art better further than they might be conscious of.

It is important to develop what the study must yield toward the soloist; that might find their talent and grasp therein; yet it must also be a disservice if they do not suffer from engaging much in the mere technique.

So here we have an array of themes juxtaposed, yet no surprise when they fare poorly with the chosen hand, for they are badly grounded. I have heard them say they felt pleased with their musical prowess, and it is in such a limber manner that often this affection is a misinterpretation.

Another thing that is important is that we, the teacher, must gage our understanding and how entirely the voice engages into a fine spirit of clarity to behold that which one loves.
The document titled "PRICE OF TUITION IN MUSIC" by Richard Aldrich discusses the challenges and considerations surrounding music education. It argues that the standards for music teachers have been inadequately defined and that many educators lack the necessary expertise to teach music effectively.

Aldrich highlights the disparity in qualifications between different teachers, noting that some may possess only basic skills. He critiques the trend of using less qualified individuals due to financial constraints and emphasizes the need for a higher standard in music instruction.

Aldrich then addresses the role of music teachers as both educators and mentors, stressing the importance of their qualifications and dedication. He concludes by advocating for the improvement of music education standards to ensure that students receive quality instruction.

The text also includes sections on the responsibilities of teachers and the impact of their guidance on students, suggesting that inadequate training can hinder a student's musical development. Aldrich calls for a reevaluation of how music education is approached, emphasizing the need for qualified instructors who can inspire and effectively teach their students. 

Overall, the article seeks to raise awareness about the importance of proper music education and the qualifications required to impart this knowledge effectively.
THE ETUDE  
"ROOM AT THE TOP"  
BY A. H. MACKINNON  

Old axes, pencils, brushes, and motion cases may exist, commonly referred to as "second-hand." An exceedingly valuable method of acquiring education and experience is through the use of one's inherent perceptions, which is very questionable and impressive.  

"There is room at the top," is saying true and correct. There is undoubtedly, it would seem, to the right excellence, practically certain of appearance, a fashion of obtaining goals and merit directly from intelligence.  

To tell an aspirant for fame and fortune that there is room at the top is to make him ambitious, raise his hopes, and to inspire him to perform his duty to himself and his society.  

If, as a teacher or mentor, you are able to say to your student, "You will get there; you may expect an education, and you will perform, it is a certainty."  

The instructor being the design of the higher educational institutions, is not the leg to focus only the possessed universal ability.  

In every line of professional work, competition has become exceedingly fierce. Every resource of inventive skill and mental power is called into action. The places must yield knowledge, whether of composition, theory, criticism, or graphics, is much higher than it was by far since the last change, yet more remote and reserved.  

This effect on all is to demand greater ability and knowledge from both teacher and artist. What may have passed for practical effort a short time is of my neighbor's industry too steep. In short, while some have been climbing to the top, the best boys have been doing some climbing on one account to learn their talent at a higher standard.  

The lesson to take for oneself in such circumstances is to modify our attention, for there is no rule to hold the step by adding it to the worlds.  

Many a student who would have been successful in his place, if his change had been properly directed, may find his chances become dislocated and discouraged, his importance remains frail regarding what leads to what he could obtain.  

So, while there are those who seem to have made considerable progress in the matter of constructing, there remains and stays enthusiasm to the measure of ability.  

And, he frankly admits he chances for success, as not to doggedly and hopelessly try.  

While there is no aim to the top great abilities, there is also much confusion amongst those who surround him.  

If I have made a connection, it would be in how to think of the craft that has made me a part of the issue.  

In comparison, I think best to the roles played by the one's initial rise to something all of the actions beyond our control.  

The matter, he knows, is to assume one is on a single rising step.  

Yet hold to the aspirations exceeding what is appropriate, this can become very confusing and often leads to a challenge of questioning.  

In the real game of study to be "top," the first pursuit becomes and is determined as something like "the conductor's place."  

Within recognition of which Miss Perry plans. She told them that the secret of success is in practical study was to aim at perfection in the smallest details, that too was to hold a plenitude of paying attention as successful accomplishments that reflect the spring in a creative manner with confidence.  

Music’s world was to be filled with all the benefits of surprise and happiness and the excitement one derives from studying his ideas.  

The principle of practical application asks to extend the reach of matter concerning the rules of reality.
The text from the image contains excerpts from an article titled "The Etude," discussing notable figures in piano music. It includes biographies and mentions of works by musicians such as:

1. **Ignaz Paderewski** - Noted as a brilliant virtuoso, with a brief mention of his historical significance and career, including his connection to French music.
  
2. **Arthur Friedheim** - Described as an interesting musical personality, he is noted for his teaching history and a special connection to the modern piano.

3. **Clara Schumann** - Recognized for her impactful contributions to music and notable performances. The text emphasizes her musical talent and historical relevance.

4. **Moriz Rosenthal** - Highlighted for his exceptional skills and his impact on music, including interactions with significant composers and how he was received in musical circles.

Overall, the piece reflects on the lives and contributions of these influential pianists, celebrating their artistry and influence in the realm of music.
THE ETUDE.  235

passage playing is graceful, elegant, and perfectly accurate. The life of this artist moves on a smooth plane; there are no momentous walls of rock, no glaring therapeutic ruin. Born in 1851 at St. Petersburg, her development as an artist was quickened by study and shipping. Her teacher was T. Liszt, whose influence she since 1880. This couple of artists lives on in.

The career of the remarkable pianist, Mary Kline, corresponds closely to the general condition of her life. She was born December 6, 1831, in New England. Her parents were artists. Mary soon developed in musical virtuoso, who was sent abroad to concert tours for nearly twenty years. As a Bach player made an instrument of modern piano. Mary Kline-Browning—the latter name is that of her husband, with whom she lives in Paris—is highly regarded. Her piano playing strength, in tone clean, and palpable clearness. Of the same tender tendency to the Sophie Menter and Theresa Carrario.

Sophie Menter was born in Munich, July 29, 1846, according to our Italian statistics in 1862 she is noted. While she is and has played, this entirely astonishing gives a change as you are using the saloon, and her decision is a victim to the controversy of her mastery. This young artist, having received from the influence of  Liszt and brought by Lavy, rendered as a great and magical artist. Sophie Menter has wonderfully beautiful form, a grace of style, and a vivaciousness which can be signalling "legit portion to all music," leaving faculties, and in Paris she is artist divine. 

But enough about the second class. Her player is noted for the fancy and bravura of movement; abandoning the cadenza of lady. Her foremost example is the exquisite mosaic passage, guileless companion of sparkling phosphorescence. Her playing was rendered as, a piece of gold that the nation burst in her performance, which is perfect technique, with glittering passages, in singing arpeggios, in scintillating octaves, chromatic, and trifles, and thunderous octave runs, has given the touch of a master. 

Theresa Carrasco was born December 29, 1858, at Caracas, Venezuela. Her father was a minister of the state. She was sent to Paris in infancy, and studied there from 15 years to grow and extend continent boy eyes. She represents quite a different genus of your playing. A reference the Sophie Menter; each having been endowed, but wonderfully rare, liberty of clear and long low symphony, and the inward spring of her sound; and still very touching behavior. 

Heralds in piano playing. In her concert there sometime like whistling, large rest hurts every consolation, an elaborate reading of her person, submarine, harmony as well as a type of the absolute virtuoso technique.

A VIRTUE OF THEORY. 

I am the victim of theory; and I can tell that I can never abandon it. I did not realize it until I had heard of the theory of music through the best kind of literature. When I knew the story of music, I began to wonder how my self-discovery could accomplish what I take hold of. But I always listened differently from those heavy forms. 

While, in singing, I mastered became a pianist, along with my practice in piano, the theory was long. The reading of the popular duties of rhythm, harmonic progression and contrasting boards of key characteristics, and hearing simply, were oftentimes disturbed by education. But on the other parts did not expect with thought of the theory to gain me through sufficiency. 

My debut was no high accomplishment, for there was no technical in the details. The singing did unite music and habit that I just performed. I did not practice, but to practice the time. 

Jackson Purdy—"Do you know that in Boondojib?" 

Anselmo Hills—"No, I don't care for those French writers very much."
THE ETUDE

THE TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS OF A MUSIC TEACHER

There is a saying that “competition is the life of trade;” and this has been true, the business of music teaching has greatly increased over the years, particularly in our larger cities, where life can certainly make teacher feel the sternness of individual distinction.

It has been commonly expressed that the profession of teacher, that of a doctor, is subject to the same competitors, but in one case, as overlooked, or perhaps taken lightly by many as any array of “professors” who can begin to show the same aim of respect for those who worship at the shrine of music, and who can win their bread by teaching music.

Now, it is said from my side to lay before the world all the trials and tribulations that enter into a music teacher’s life, and it would have a tendency to prevent an honest and conscientious student from entering into the profession, but rather, on the contrary, to enjoy it, to devote his time to worship on the altar of music.

While the station of the professor is well known to the public, and is supposed to have a degree of positive respect, the difficulties of his profession cannot be understood either by himself or others outside of his circle.

As music education has developed into an important factor in our educational system, it has tended to create much ill-feeling between the various parties. 

There are people who seem almost to think that a friend or a relative, whose musical abilities are not of the highest order, is certain to be an unfortunate teacher. This is not the case. 

The public is not supposed to be qualified to think when it comes to music, though the claims and pretensions of any artist and all of the teachers is apparent in the field of sacred music, and I would think would be foolish, and open further questions in the community, and the music profession in general, for music and the State, seems to be not so cool as one might think, regulations would enhance the work of teachers, and prevent them from saying, “I can play;” this is the business of the school of music.

As music has become a necessary part of education, it has become understood that in sustaining the school, teachers should have regular training and should be compensated for their time and their talents.

Art is such that every little Miss who can sing “Home, Sweet Home,” or “I Dream of Jeannie,” has a right to be judged critically; and those in the profession of music must remember that part of the profession is serving the right to practice one’s art under any and all circumstances, no matter how it is taken or how cleverly it is defined.

In short, the music profession should be taken as a thing of great beauty, with “halls of respect,” and funds that affirm the cause on which people are based.

There are many technical schools that have a certain semblance of the dignity of the profession, but music stands before the public with all due respect and reverence. 

The technicality of the profession and the person who should teach it should be considered, instead of handed down from the Chief Justice, as that is simply the business of the harmony of psychological industry of each one who reads music. 

Such is the course of our profession with a dignity that must be wholly realised in practice in the personal judgment of understanding the laws by which it exists.

As I study music, every little Miss who can sing “Home, Sweet Home,” or “I Dream of Jeannie,” has a right and duty to be judged critically.

The profession has a dignity that is maintained by those either in the “perfect” form or in those who practice music under rare auspices.
BEAUTIFUL SPRING REVERIE

Andante.                               Richard Goerdeler.

(Piano sheet music annotations such as dynamics and expressions appear throughout the score.)

Copyright 1892 by Theo. Presser.
The image contains a page of sheet music, which is divided into five sections of musical staves. The staves contain various musical notes and symbols, including clefs, measures, and rests, indicative of a piano composition.

At the bottom of the page, there is a title that reads "Beautiful Spring Reverie." The overall text includes musical notation and symbols rather than conventional written text. 

The sheet music appears to be printed on an aged paper, with some slight discoloration and markings, likely from previous use or handling. Each section showcases different melodic sequences that correspond with the title.
Beautiful Spring Reverie.
The image contains sheet music displaying several measures of notes. The title at the bottom reads, "Beautiful Spring Reverie." 

In the music, there are various dynamic and tempo markings, including:
- **mf** (mezzo forte)
- **marcato** (marked)
- **dim** (diminuendo)
- **a tempo**
- **ritard.** (ritardando)
- **pp** (pianissimo)
- **up a tempo**

The sheet music consists of staff lines with notes, rests, and other musical symbols typical of piano compositions. The measures feature a range of note values and some curved lines indicating legato phrasing.
The image contains a sheet of music, specifically for a piece titled "Beautiful Spring Reverie." The music notation includes a series of notes arranged on five lines and is marked with standard musical symbols such as clefs, sharp signs, and note articulations. The layout shows several measures of music spanning multiple staves, likely indicating a piano composition. The bottom of the page features the title clearly labeled: "Beautiful Spring Reverie." The page is somewhat faded and has a slightly worn appearance, with some visible markings and textures.
Second Mazurka Caprice  
Wilson G. Smith Op. 48, No. 2  
In tempo di Mazurka  

*con moto capriccioso*

Copyright 1922, by Theo. Presser.
The image contains a musical score featuring several measures of sheet music. The title "Second Mazurka Caprice" is noted at the bottom of the page. Various musical notations are present, including notes on the staff, dynamics like "ppp" (pianississimo), "P" (piano), and performance directions such as "lusingando" (in a sweetly expressive manner) and "ritard" (gradually slowing down), followed by "a tempo" (returning to the original tempo). The layout consists of four lines of music, with the notation typical of classical piano compositions.
The image contains a sheet of written music, specifically a piano score. The text includes musical directions and titles as follows:

- "sempre legato e verso."
- "rall."
- "a tempo."
- "mf capriccioso"
- "Second Mazurka Caprice."

Various musical notes and symbols are displayed throughout the score, indicating the rhythms and melodies to be played on an instrument. The score also includes bar lines separating measures. The overall layout is typical of classical sheet music, ensuring clarity for performance.
a tempo.  
poco rill.  
1.  
2.  
poco rau.  
f con moto  
espricioso  

(piano notation continues with measures indicating crescendo/decrescendo)

Second Mazurka Caprice. 4
Gavotte Pastorale.

Edited by:
Fred C. Hahr
Oscar Schmidt Op. 23

Allegretto (d = 78)

(a) This fingering is often useful in scales and develops smoothness; it is safer not to begin the crescendo with the thumb, but on the following note.  
(b) Do not attempt the "mordent" until the fingers are brought together from the preceding octave; notice fingering 2 & 4 is better than 3 & 2, and 1 & 3 is better than 2 & 3; try to play the first note of "mordent" simultaneously with the left hand chord, but accent the last note.  
(c) Staccato passages in single notes should be practiced with both "finger" and "wrist" staccato.  

Copyright 1923 by Theo. Presser.
Musetto stesso tempo.

(a) Musette - the name of an old instrument like a bagpipe, and also Dance of a quiet character; it is generally used in a "Trio" to the Gavotte "Stesso tempo" the same movement, neither faster nor slower. (b) These groups should be played with an alternate depression and elevation of the wrist on the first and second respectively of each group. 

Gavotte Pastorale.
12

Gavotte.

mf

acharsando

Gavotte Pastorale. 4
The image contains a sheet of printed music with various musical notations. The text includes:

- "Coda."
- Also noted are dynamic markings such as "mf" (mezzo forte), "p" (piano), "dim." (diminuendo), and "ritard." (ritardando).
- The phrase "poco stringendo" appears, indicating a slight increase in speed.

The sheet features staves filled with notes and rests, and there are multiple measures indicated with bar lines. The overall structure is characteristic of a piece meant for piano, marked with expressive directions. 

At the bottom of the page, it mentions "Gavotte Pastorale, 4."
Dedicated to Miss Gertrude Gilbert.

BARCAROLE
Herm. Mohr, Op. 64, N° 3.

Lento.
Melodie espress.

[Musical notation follows] 

Copyright 1898 by Theo. Presser.
The image contains sheet music with the following details:

- The piece is divided into measures, with various musical notes and symbols.
- The top left corner shows "mf" indicating a mezzo-forte dynamic.
- There's a measure with the term "cres." suggesting a crescendo.
- Other dynamic markings include "p" for piano, "f" for forte, and "dim." for dimutive.
- The sheet music features multiple staves with notes represented in standard notation.
- There are annotations like "crese." indicating another crescendo.
- At the very bottom, the word "Bonaventure." is noted, likely the title or a related term.

The sheet is a page from a larger musical work. The overall appearance is aged, likely printed on yellowed paper, with some darkening around the edges.
The image contains sheet music, specifically a piano score. The title at the bottom reads "Barcarolle." 

The score is structured into several lines and consists of both treble and bass clefs. The sheet indicates various musical notations, including dynamics such as "p" for piano, "mf" for mezzo-forte, and "dim." for diminendo. The notes depicted include a variety of pitches, played in a flowing, melodic manner typical of a barcarolle. 

The overall impression is of classical sheet music focused on a lyrical and expressive musical line.
Here is the extracted text from the image provided:

---

A HIGHER EDUCATION IN MUSIC.

Editor’s Desk

Every serious-minded musician has a share in the work of elevating the standard of musical intelligence, and the responsibility for this important work is the public and professional educator alike. 

In this, as in other professions, the time given to education, in whatever form, is of utmost importance. From the point of view there is no doubt, on one hand, in the quality of what the public wants, and on the other hand, in the quality of what the profession can offer. 

What sounds too simple will often meet real difficulties, when observed under critical conditions. The relation to music and study is no less difficult to determine.

The public, this educated public, wants deeper analysis than what the general public is best conditioned to appreciate. 

The public desires clear and sympathetic presentation of the facts, that is, however, a matter of application. 

Perhaps the most critical point is to define what the higher forms of education are, and why they are less effective than they should be. 

Those persons, who are not acquainted with the difficulties surrounding the popular tastes, naturally the pupils deny the importance of addressing themselves to it. 

The education for music is found wanting; it should provide first the needed principles and methods. 

There is no other branch of education that completely ignores scientific pedagogical, and psychological ground-principles. 

There is only one study that yields so much energy, mind, and money: this is the study of the piano; and it is, however, a mere return in the way of intelligence. 

There is no other study over which such an indelicate tabulation of energy, time, and money is conducted unnecessarily wasted.

There is no other field where it has kept so much dependently in the supervision of teachers for so many necessary years. 

There is no study entirely in which there is no completely separated from principles, and, therefore, to the study in which a student learns little to nothing of the value of the study of things. 

A consequence, there is no other class of distinction which the student is to impose on himself, however, which had its main object in the statement of his or its judgments, as it is an unavoidable consequence of all instruction. 

With all this exalted theory which is made of intense invitation, it is limited and directed on a basis of limitations, out of the logical possibilities existing in the nature of things.

The study of music is made to be an important factor of its character and its spirit, and is demanding greater demand of examination before we can lay ground for real insight, in the matters which disguise.

The position, then, of any science has so many variations that there cannot be the beginning of any controlling within the nuances of experience, and nobody ever knows the complexity, and his inexperience would work against the pupil as to the means of acquiring the working principle of the more vital effort.

It is time that this science of education is carried on with a systematic direction that is in accord with the confidence of results for the time used, and with a consistent method for the future.

---

If you need further assistance or information, let me know!
### HINTS ON TEACHING

The points about care in the very first instruction can not be too strongly emphasized, and great care should be taken to see that it is good, sound, bright, clear, and also artistic in character.

The following illustrations may be of help in making the right direction, both in suitable and graceful manner. More than this, the owner of the land should have duly afforded the attention of the pupils.

I have recently visited a class which included a student who, in preparing harmony, did not yield to the trick of bringing out each note nicely; but what is most striking is, he played the whole piece with very little expression.

The teacher, who appeared to be very kind, was clearly not aware of being unfair to the students. 

While having around my heart to see that, in striving to make harmony the #1 objective for the students, I am of the mind of thinking that it is most simply far preferable to teach an easy song.

The system in hand requires many lessons along the instruction of easy things to avoid.

### AN EFFECT IN TONE-COLORING

By W. E. Jewis.

There is a lovely effect in tone-coloring that is used as much by pianists as it is clearness, and that is where there never been described in print. It consists in taking the tones of chords that enhance the melody more prominent than any of the others.

In order to accomplish the work of doing this it is best to begin with a few simple tones.

Now begin with bass chords, even at sixth with said that the ear is thrown upon the fifth finger, which should be clear and curved as the thumb to change the bass and from the shoulder of the tip of its finger to keep completely relaxed. 

When finishing this, you will not help it, but when you get to J and E and you can perhaps, be sure the chord should strike tenderly, not aggressively in short the hand of bringing out the C with the outside, when saying you could have the L and C and the other hand can, too, the B# can be done with finally in chords of three where the touch has been used and should be gentle on the whole thing then, while the left hand must play with the fingers out.

The result is a clear amplification. Take the passage beginning with the fingering of the fourth in Chopin’s "Impromptu." If the old traditions were left in memory, it presents good, bright tone in all parts of it and the old effective, which is practically defective, and all the rest of the chord box has kept its purity.

### MUSICAL CRITICISM

In my estimation, it is not necessarily for musical performances. 

The truly good musician will always find the difficulty in theory. 

When practicing, it takes attention to be a great deal of the absence of regularity, instead in instances both to learn on subjects like rhythm at the proper place, while mastering starts without deviating.

A modern pianist is supposed to present within the resource of the left that is a need for each and every exercise within the premises site.

I surely find it necessary to take new fingers to the left hand and both by the right hand it is a means for them quickly learned to distinguish how better they are the musical lines where a good development brings the psychological manner that helps the chord.

The particular and general importance holds during these things with the depth of either sound or silence within the original idea brings the adaptation to give up an effect, assisting by its value and the right kind of beauty. 

It is invaluable that no musician or local performer may ever try this, feel it and temper their pieces. 

When you practice resolving together with some of the notes while playing, it becomes more productive.

What the public really wants to read is a technical exercise.

A common sort of exercise is the desire to be fresh—that means a proper exercise and should be not too hard to take.

An expert critic should invite the ability to hold and guide the students through the improvement of your artistic hand.
The text from the image contains various sections discussing music and its emotional aspects. It begins with a reference to teaching music, mentioning various stakes involved in music instruction. The title "THE ETUDE" appears prominently at the top, indicating the publication it belongs to, followed by a page number (239).

The section titled "INTERPOLATIVITY IN MUSIC" by Louis C. Elson explores definitions of music and discusses its emotional resonance. It emphasizes the complexity of music, its ability to convey deep feelings and the necessity for musicians to understand the subtleties involved in performance. The text critiques the historical perceptions of music and advocates for a broader interpretation of its expressive capabilities.

The document outlines practical exercises for musicians, including finger placement techniques for instruments, with detailed instructions on how to execute specific movements. It emphasizes the importance of mastering technique for effective musical expression.

Throughout, there are notions of the relationship between music and emotion, highlighting how effectively conveying feelings through music is crucial for both performers and listeners. The author draws upon various examples and historical references to elaborate on these themes. 

Overall, the text presents a blend of instructional content alongside philosophical musings about the nature of music and its impact on human emotions.
Here is the extracted text from the image:

---

340  
THE ETUDE.

CONCERT PROGRAMME.  
Piano Recital at Elizabeth College, Muria.  
Conductor, Donald; Montano, 10.00 p.m.  
Chopin, Nocturne, Op. 27, No. 2; Schumann, Prelude, Op. 17; Fugue, Op. 17; Beethoven, Sonata, Op. 13, "Pathetique".  
Lange, Spirituals; Grieg, Nocturne, Op. 54.  
Heller, Sorrows; Schubert, Ave Maria.  
Nawrocki, Blind Room; Glinka, Ruslan; Stiehl, Liszt.

Piano Concert, Pupils of Ms. Strong, St. Louis.  
Conductor for the Piano, Miss Ruth Patton.  
Bach, Prelude in C Minor; Mendelssohn, Sonate.  
Bartók, Allegro; Debussy, Clair de Lune; Beethoven, Sonata, Op. 111.

Piano Recital at the Apollos of Joseph T. Darling.  
Dudley B. Pomeroy, Elder T. C. Edwards.  
Conductor, Foxtrot; Dance; Meyerbeer, over all.  
Grieg, Concerto, Op. 16.  
Transcribed, Kuhlau, Fugen***

HELP AND HINTS.  
Contact with the powers of others can call forth new ideas.  
Greatness, "Heaven."  
A judge, a critic, a poet is lost to the world for the sake of his own consciousness.  
No man can know and do all things; it is enough to know one thing well.  
The ability is lost in the beginning.

The listener looks for praise of the task well done; it is often better to be amusing and wanting to please.

It is of the utmost importance that piano lessons be available every day; in time, the fingers can become flexible.

The player should be player able to gather results without excessive tempo.

Students must be encouraged to have a strong sense of ideals concerning music; they can be aware of rarely.

The reality of playing can be formed by the strength; the struggle is life.

THOUGHTS OF PIANO PRACTICE AS A FACTOR IN CHARACTER-BUILDING.  
James H. Dutton.  
Piano: If a key is left to chance, it can be troublesome; it involves ample research.

Incorporating the right methods, practice habits can yield virtues and spiritual output.

The virtue lies not just in ability but in willingness to meet oneself.  
Discussing the music, not merely meaning but the individual spirit leads to integrated groundwork.

Must define the ideal. For all musical forms, individual interrelation is key.

Be wise, honest in impulse; keep intimate records. It strengthens ease and enriches capability.

The plan must be discussed, evaluated honestly; clarify maintaining effort.

The musician is not left alone; society helps shape the artist’s values and qualities.

Never underestimate or dismiss the ability inherent in genuine aspiration; evolution is essential.

---

This text captures the content accurately while ensuring that all elements are preserved as presented in the image.
THE ETUDE  

THE ETUDE PREMIUM LIST.  
1704 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

We are now making more favorable offers than ever before. The variety of premiums is large enough to meet the wants of all. We have especially endeavored to offer premiums suitable for presents.  
NOTICE that everything in this list is also offered for sale.  

LIBERAL CASH PREMIUMS.  
One Subscription, in addition . . . $1.50  
Two Subscriptions . . . . . . . . 2.75  
Three . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.25  
Four . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.50  
Five . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.60  
Ten . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.00  
Fifteen . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.00  

WITH CASH DEDUCTIONS FOR OTHER PREMIUMS LISTED.  

WHAT THE PREMIUMS ARE FOR.  
We are Treating Subscribers Just Right.  
Read for Yourself!  

No Premium Given for One Subscription.  

MUSICAL LITERATURE PREMIUMS.  
Music Life and How to Succeed in It, by Thomas Tanselle. Given for subscription. Price, postage paid, $1.00.  

Chairs with Music Sticks, by Thomas Tanselle. Given for one subscription, Price, postage paid, $1.00.  

Piano-Forte Music, by H. S. Chalmers. Given for one subscription, Price, postage paid, $1.50.  

Lessons on Musical History, by John C. Filler. Given for one subscription, Price, postage paid, $1.00.  

Musical Culture, by Carl M. Titz. Given for new subscribers. Price, postage paid, $1.50.  

How to Educate a Musical Family, by S. B. Martin. This valuable book is for new subscriptions only.  

The Musician's Guide, by Peter F. Pons. Given for new subscriptions. Price, postage paid, $1.00.  

The Style & the Chop, by L. P. Busser. Given for new subscriptions. Price to Current, given postage paid, 75 cents.  

Dictionary of Music, by E. J. Matzke. Given for new subscriptions. Price, postage paid, $1.50.  

LIBERAL OFFER OF MUSICAL WORKS.  
If you send each subscriber who sends you suggestions for the refreshment necessary for success, you will receive eight copies of The Etude, also all ten of the following:  
1. Beethoven's Piano Sonatas.  
2. Mozart's Piano Sonatas.  
3. Extensive Melodic Exercises for beginner's scales.  

A COMPLETE PREMIUM LIST WILL BE SENT ON APPLICATION.  

TO OUR READERS:  
Subscribe for The Etude, because it is an educational journal;  
it is the only periodical of its kind. It supplies every need in music education. It brings all you need to know in music. Subscription is valuable for progressing by leaps.  

It is edited to regulate and help you the very latest and best in the field of teaching and study.  

Subscribe for The Etude.  
It will repay you in the enlarged outlook it will give you, in the personal suggestions with the latest thoughts, and in the use of musical publications it will bring to your notice.  

Subscribe for The Etude.  
In an standard of excellence of contributions of world-wide reputation. Look at the list of contributors, and eminent musical teachers, critics, and musicians, and you will see the comfort of the new value.  

Subscribe for The Etude.  
Here is a good coming year. You will be in with each on a personal seminar, for they know that The Etude's Premiums.  

Subscribe for The Etude.  
You will find great lists of piano teachers and successful teachers, hints and helps to stimulate teachers. The Etude stands for its own nourishments.  

The only normal-cost for such a news connection is one dollar and a half a small cost for so much.  

To read the journals, each The Etude, is next to the teacher's own training. Subscribe for it.  
One dollar and fifty cents is the cost.
PUBLISHER'S NOTE

We hope the subscribers will please our subscribers! It is something the Editor cannot understand why you do not aid in making the journal good for farming, which should be the subject matter. We have printed notices on the slight to speak for a larger magazine. Then consider the 55 cents' price, with limited. I wish you will come to renew at once.

Please take note of your response on this month's issue. If the old subscription, after December 1st, is messy, your paid-up subscription has expired. It will facilitate our friends' notice of renewal subscriptions to credit properly. I trust that the journal subscription will mean explicit notice, otherwise it will continue to be stale. When receiving what you may and will send back, please reply, join out. You have to invite upon your renewal from the charge.

One reader will solve a member of prominent contributions like these names: Amended by H. Erklilcher, critic of New York Tribune; H. J. Clar, Editor of New York Times; I look at this with a repulsion of previous articles from the writers as well as others to respond to the large questions asked. 

Now is the time of the year to make up clubs of subscribers for The Etude. It is practical advice to know of this Etude, and each member should be aware. We observed the Prentiss Music Company’s letter allowed more than one subscriber in each issue. Read "How to Enjoy the Subscribership". The Etude is another kind of month, student for mother or child, or student or teacher, for the learner and person. The books there are wonderful, and we are working for our part by giving the best musical works offered.

It must be generally understood that the publishers should not confuse the name of the print in The Etude. This is a small part. We have framed ready to thirty styles available to be filled in. The second is to have a purchase on a monthly instalment. All articles are kept at the end of the season, which will assist to refund. We have a brief article explaining details of the whole rest.

Best for:

We have received a larger lot of Porter’s Phelps Music Binder and Roll. It will keep your sheet music from becoming worn, torn, or destroyed. It is light and flexible. I will say points on this page. Pieces can easily fly out of order. With that certainty, it is a quantity of correct music entries, which free the whole way from one to sound as good as new. From one to forty pieces can be found inside. 

Style #1 and Style #2: Style #1 has leather back room, close price, $1.75; Style #2 is in full art leather. Either will assist with a genuine comfort, for $2.00. Style #2, if desired in slate morocco, comes simply styled, priced at $2.00. All of the above are for sale at this time. Same well at Edition Music Storage, which sells double sizes, sizes, and stock dance factors. This is an excellent style for keeping sheets and is quite much robust.

"Why not have the publishers of this work for a more progressive year ahead? This work is in great fashion yearly by the instructor. The exercise of this work in service is reliable for college and placing for the scholarly, educational difficulties. Yes, indeed, we are admiring this to this number.

Questions and Answers

Our subscribers are invited to send in queries. 

Ques. — Could a personal diploma and member note of a year at a local college send relating to the Association Degrees, and do competent writing, for degrees, in votes for the Fellowship? 

Ans.— No. The scholarship shall mandate a paper on contemporary and includes the Associate Degrees, and has no competence, and begs form for a vote for the Fellowship, etc. B. E. Morvasi.

Ques.— Kindly respond through the columns of The Etude of serial editions or works on the preparation of options, and assorted organizations.

Ans.— One of the best is Washburn's "Literature Book". An excellent work by Writing in a First Six Months on the Organ. Zander's "Organ School" is good, with little clue.

Ques. — Would you advise me on The Etude for saying which piece should be played over a chord on some titles listed before (or would measure point to describe the note). 

Ans. — If the associations are the same as to leave under the note of the chord, it is generally justified that the degree, such as a single note should not be based, as the piece in going this way. There is a leader subject visible, "several children", which will now bring out music to make clear.

Ques. — Will you please give me the rule for the following inside, for single pieces in a band group: 

"one measure at the leading". 

Ans. — This establishes a practical limit. It is pointed for a single chord to be read to title at or shorter about, don't stretch the rule at least to sound for another in the title.

The answers may be left by small hands.

EXTRAORDINARY OFFICE OF RIGHT NEW WORKS

Offer until January 1, 1893.

We offer paper and volume set, offer objects in standard form, and others for your consideration. Order now. 

1. "Mandel Method", 1.00, “Fifth”,, 2.00; 

2. Smith, Victor G., "Studies for Reed Organ": Lando. C. W., "Melodic Studies for Reed Organ".

3. M. Y., "Musical Demands for given cases".

4. Lando, R. W., "Fifth Series for Piano".

5. A special arrangement available, plus music for "Compound".

THEO. PRESSER & CO.

Philadelphia, 706 Chestnut St.
THE ETUDE

SOURCES OF LEADING MUSICIANS.

AN OPEN LETTER TO DR. L. H. EHRLICH.

Dear Sir:

It is a matter of much importance that we should consider the aims and methods of training young teachers, if our desire is to bring about a greater development of music. While it is well enough to talk about the evils of the present day in how music is taught, it is of more importance to ensure that the youth in training is not overshadowed in his originality and in his craving for knowledge.

It will be a considerable difficulty—and more especially for those young people, who have the twofold mission of teacher and performer. This leads me to think that the most essential traits of character, and especially the very first essential of energy, must be preserved in their full force. 

THE PIANO ART AND THE PIANO NOT.

I. K. WHITE.

Music has much to say to every one. Its influence on the individual is grand! Whether you hear it, see it, or feel it, you must be thankful you are able to enjoy such a companionship which expresses deep emotions.

We are reminded that the ears often get accustomed to hearing, as do our eyes to seeing. There is a hope that music will serve to improve the human mind. But our best guide is the conscience, which should be the one judicious ruler. 

WHAT THE AUTHOR SAID.—C. H. LANDY.

I generally said: “Let us make right work.” This description is bad. With this push, the great man usually disappears. Cultural and ethical changes and improved means are fast acting to bring to a more glorious field.

In the future I hope you will get to the point where fundamental changes are consciously enacted by concert people, and if the years should also accomplish this result: many books for the kind of course you might appear in, should remain interesting, and you should not forget ambition. 

Playing the superior music is simply performed; I seldom show much skill and experience. 

SELF-CONTROL.—HAZEL RENTS.

Man and woman, civilized beings are most necessary to be plain. This self-examination means growth in mental faculty, moral talent, and a wide range of thinking. 

Exercise in emotionality is needed by the young people to keep conscious, creatively, intellectually and spiritually, and to be natural.

THE PHONOGRAPH IN MUSIC STUDY.

BY E. K. KIRKHAM.

It would have been passing strange, considering the present tendency of pedagogics, if the minds of musical directors are not turned to the phonograph as a possible help to teaching students, from the point of view of individual study.

The first thing, I believe, is practical application, and has been extremely limited; indeed, it will look rather plain if it is treated in a stereotyped way. 

There must be room for the student to make accomplishments, or they may not be sufficiently free from restraints to encourage an effort to form new ideas.

Unless the eligibility of the matter is considered which could be definitely differentiated, moreover, it is likely to miss its goal entirely.

The two articles on the phonograph in music study may have allusion here. The first was published in the "National Music Journal." 

Though the students must be rapturously hearing the experiences of a few, one must be careful not to become so fixed in a young teacher's mind. 

It would be necessary for some to perceive that the new suggestions can serve to invigorate their performance. 

In conclusion, I can for myself say that the opportunities and thoughts, which tend to expand the pupils' perspectives on musical directions, will not be complete without the adoption of the phonograph.
The image contains a page from "The Etude" with the following sections:

1. **Header:** The title "THE ETUDE" prominently displayed at the top, along with a page number (344).

2. **Articles:** The text appears to be related to music education and performance. It discusses topics like the role of the pianist in music, various techniques, and approaches in photography related to music.

3. **Musical Darwinism:** There are illustrations under this heading, labeled with Roman numerals I to V, depicting five different hairstyles of a subject, suggesting a focus on visual representation in music or performance.

4. **Testimonials:** A section that appears to feature endorsements or testimonials, including mentions of various individuals and institutions involved in music education.

5. **Special Notices:** This section contains several announcements related to services, such as items for sale, emphasizing musical teaching and instruments.

6. **Frayed Edges:** The page has some damage, particularly at one edge, presenting a torn area that disrupts part of the text.

Overall, the focus is on enhancing musical understanding and conveying the significance of visual presentation in an educational context.
THE STUDY  
LATEST PUBLICATIONS  
THEODORE PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.  
GRADE I-X  

VII  

206 Webb, F. R. A Song of June. (Vocal) Grade IV.  
1218 Webb, F. R. Op. 6, No. 2, The Golden Goblet. Grade II.  
1219 Webb, F. R. Op. 67, No. 8, A Souvenir. Grade IV.  
1220 Webb, F. R. Op. 67, No. 5, Fantasy. Grade III.  
1221 De Knottel, Chrysler. Op. 870, The Great Tamer. Grade VI.  
1255 Houseley, Emers. Flowers of the Valley. (Vocal) Grade III.  
1256 Hughes, E. J. Prelude. (Piano) Grade IV.  
1257 Moolling, Theodore. Grade VI.  
1258 Waddington, Edmund. Rippling Stream. (Piano) Grade II.  
1259 Johnson, A. R. Bravado, Der Wind. (Piano) Grade IV.  
1260 Kelly, Marjorie. Opus 11. Grade I.  
1261 Eastman, H. R. Standard Concerto for Student in Two Grands.  
Grade I.  
1262 Moolling, Theodore. Souvenir. A Ballade. Grade III.  
1263 Moolling, Theodore. Margan. (Vocal) Grade V.  
1264 Moir, J. M. The Return. (Vocal) Grade V.  
1265 Houghton, E. L. Piano. (Vocal) Grade II.  
1266 Wilkins, E. Shab. Polka Maritzka. Grade IV.  
1267 Katavinski, I. Op. 5, Five Obin. (Vocal) Grade III.  
1268 Karpin, A. V. The Red Sarafina. Grade V.  
1271 Fraser, T. Concolation’s Handel.  
1272 Franzick, G. Op. 84, No. 3, Morning Prayer. Grade I.  
1273 Hungarian Dance.  
1274 Low, J. March Incomplete.  
1275 Quattri, G. Op. 107, No. 1, Negro Dance. Grade III.  
1276 Ward, G. (Field) No. 1, A Merry-Waltz. Grade II.  
1277 Waiss, E. D. Op. 3, No. 5, Bal des Flowers. Grade IV.  
1278 Looschorn, A. Op. 61, No. 8, On the Winds. Grade II.  
1279 Michel, Joseph. A Look on Ode. (Vocal) Grade IV.  
1280 Smith, Wilson G. Op. 46, No. 1, Antiquarian Poses. Grade VI.  
1281 Waddington, Edmund. Op. 30, No. 3, The Woods. (Swing Song.) Grade II.  
1282 O'Neill, Theo. Op. 62, Gavotte. (Antique.) Grade IV.  
1283 Dupree, Paul. Op. 51, "Little." (Vocal).  
1284 Rathbun, G. Notturna. Grade VI.  
1285 Rathbun, G. In Spring. Theme. Grade I.  
1286 Smith, Wilson. Op. 33, Nymphs at the Dell. (Rondo.) Grade II.  
1287 Rathbun, G. In Spring. Theme II. Grade I.  
1288 Bullock, W. C. Boogie-Woogie. Grade IV.  
1289 Shelwood, E. Logo de la Flûte. Grade IV.  
1290 Hadding, G. H. Hiddlin’ Bookie. Grade III.  
1291 Hason, G. Op. 4.  
1292 Jay, D. Two Short Pieces.  
THE ETUDE

A GREAT COLLEGE OF MUSIC.

The Regular Winter Term Opens Monday, December 19th. Send for Catalog.

The Broad Street Conservatory of Music, 1331 South Broad Street, Philadelphia, has for many years taken position as one of the leading institutions for musical training in America. It is the only conservatory in Philadelphia issuing daily papers, speaking of the excellence of the Conservatory and its students.

J. R. COMBS, Director,
1331 South Broad St., Philadelphia, PA.

PHILADELPHIA CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
834 NORTH BROAD STREET.
(Founded 1882.)
WILL REOPEN SEPTEMBER 5th.

Director, RICHARD C. SCHIRMER.

The faculty consists of well-known instructors of the most accomplished musical learning.

OUR FACULTY INCLUDES:
HENRI E. BOURQUE
PIANO AND ORGAN.
EDWARD C. SCHIRMER
PRESIDENT.
FRANZ SOHN
VIOLIN.
LEWIS A. BROWN
VOICE.
F. G. PACKARD
ORGAN AND HARMONY.
C. S. JENKINS
TEACHER OF MUSIC EDUCATION.

Illustrated catalogue and descriptive circular mailed free on application.

G. R. COMBS, Director,
1331 South Broad St., Philadelphia, PA.

A New and Original Publication.

JOHN SEBASTIAN BACH,
With Analytical Sketches and Explanations,
By BERNARDUS BOEKMAN.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

NORTHWESTERN CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

H. C. DAVIES, H.S., Director.

MRS. W. STARR WOOD,
Concerts, Piano Recitals and Piano Instruction.

HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Doc.,
2323 South Sixth Street,
PHILADELPHIA.

LESSONS BY MAIL!
In Harmony, Counterpoint, etc.

ORGAN OPENINGS.
MR. ALBERT W. BOST,
ORGAN - AND - PIANOFORTE
3602 Hamilton St., Philadelphia, Pa.
No Charge Made for Lessons.

350 YD ADVERTISING.
CONCERT PAINT AND LECTURES.

GREGORY MURRAY,
For further information, address:
The Organ, 104 East 16th St., New York City.

PHILADELPHIA SCHOOL OF MUSIC,
151 GIRARD AVENUE.

A large faculty of Superior Instructors, and a splendid building for instruction. The Philadelphia Conservatory offers unusual advantages for the study of Music, with 62 students year last term. Established 1885.

Terms: Book Fees, 15, 16, 17. and April 1st.
F. P. EICH, Director.

DANA’S MUSICAL INSTITUTE OF MUSIC,
WARREN, OHIO.

DANA’S CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
with a thorough, systematic course of Music, is a thorough, recognized efficiency.
Established twenty years ago. Catalogues free.

STANDARD WORKS.
DANA'S PIANOFORTE SCHOOL,
101 Lindsley Ave., Warren, Ohio.