Gardner-Webb University
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University

The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957                                   John R. Dover Memorial Library

5-1-1894

Volume 12, Number 05 (May 1894)

Theodore Presser


Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude

[small colorful circular icon] Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Fine Arts Commons, History Commons, Liturgy and Worship Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons


Recommended Citation
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 12, No. 05. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, May 1894. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/382


This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.

Description of non-textual image(s):
- A small circular colorful icon appears to the left of the phrase "Part of the". The icon is composed of overlapping rounded shapes in bright colors (red, blue, yellow, and green), forming a compact circular emblem with a modern, slightly glossy appearance. It looks like a repository/collection logo or tag used to indicate related academic commons.
I can transcribe this, but much of the fine-print on the page is too small/low-contrast in the provided image to read with confidence. Below I give an exact transcription of the large and clearly legible text (masthead, subscription block, and many surrounding headings), followed by a note on the smaller items I could not read reliably and a request for a higher-resolution crop if you want a fully accurate word-for-word transcription of every column.

Exact transcription of clearly readable text:

FOR ANYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC, MUSIC BOOKS, OR MUSICAL MERCHANDISE, SEND TO THE PUBLISHER OF "THE ETUDE."

THE ETUDE

VOL. XII. PHILADELPHIA, PA., MAY, 1894. NO. 5.

THE ETUDE.
PHILADELPHIA., PA., MAY, 1894.

A Monthly Publication for the Teachers and Students of Music.

Subscription Rates $1.50 per year (payable in advance).
Single Copy, 15 cents.

DISCONTINUANCE. — If you wish the Journal stopped, an explicit notice must be sent us, by letter, otherwise, it will be continued. All arrearages must be paid.

RENEWAL. — No receipt is sent for renewals. On the wrapper of the next issue sent you will be printed the date to which your subscription is paid up, which serves as a receipt for your subscription.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Musical Items.

HOME.

(At this point the columns continue with many short musical news items in small type. Much of that small column text is too small or low-contrast in the provided image to transcribe with full confidence line-by-line. Several items and sentences are partially legible — for example references to Theo. Thomas returning to New York; W. H. Sherwood making a tour of the Pacific States during May; Paderewski beginning his next American tour on Jan. 2, 1895; mention of productions of Massenet's "Werther" in Chicago; nominations by Dvořák for a prize offered by the National Conservatory; Gilmore's Band and the number of cases of music carried on tour; Denmark refusing to adopt international copyright; reports about Anton Rubinstein retiring to private life; references to Saint-Saëns and to Geo. Henschel writing an opera — but the exact wording of many short items and complete sentences in the three columns is not reliably readable in this image.)

Image description (non-textual elements):

- Large ornate masthead illustration behind the title "THE ETUDE." The artwork is a rectangular frame with floral scrollwork on the right and left corners. At left within the frame is a circular laurel wreath that encloses a small heraldic shield bearing a lyre (musical harp) symbol. Behind and radiating from the wreath are long palm-like fronds or plumes that sweep across the top of the frame toward the right. Fine vine-like foliage and floral motifs decorate the rest of the rectangular header ornamentation. The title words "THE ETUDE" are integrated into this decorative panel in elaborate, highly stylized Victorian lettering.

- The page layout is three columns beneath the masthead, with column rules faintly visible. The left column begins with the subscription and publisher block and a bold section heading "Musical Items." The two right columns contain many short news items and notices in small serif type.

If you would like a full, word-for-word transcription of every small-item paragraph in the three columns, please provide a higher-resolution scan or a crop of the columns (especially the middle and right columns) so I can read and transcribe the fine print accurately.
100

THE ETUDE.

ENGLISH SONGS AND BALLADS

BY POPULAR COMPOSERS.

LOW VOICE. VOL. I.

GEMS FOR ALTOS AND BARITONES.

All that we have said in our announcements of the companion books (Vols. I. and 2. for High Voice) applies with equal force to this collection of songs for low voice—a continuation of the series. It is a volume of popular songs, such as have been and are familiar to the majority of musical hearers; songs of love and of home; songs of the sea and of war; ballads of humor and pathos; songs of the dramatic stage and of character; songs of patriotic sentiment and of tender sentiment; in short, a collection of simple and strikingly effective compositions that, in the opinion of our Committee, will be found of exceeding value for recital and concert purposes. The arrangements are by composers of high standing and reputation, and the general plan of the book is similar to that of the High Voice series. We have, however, given even more attention to the adaptation of piano accompaniment to the vocal line, and have made the accompaniments attractive both in the way of effective tone coloring and of pianistic effect. The series will, we feel sure, be generally acceptable.

CONTENTS.

Bessie (The) (A. S. A.)—Rodney
Bride of the Sun—Rodney
Bring Him Home (from "The Sea")—Rodney
Chloè (The) (M. T. S.)—Rodney
Come! (The) (Song) —Rodney
Daisy (The) (Kind of the) —Rodney
Drink to Me Only —Rodney
Ere's Life—Rodney
Farewell, Again, Farewell—Rodney
Fisher's Hornpipe—Rodney
Good-bye—Rodney
Good Mornin' Mrs. Cobbs—Rodney
Hark!, Hark!—Rodney
I Love Thee—Rodney
I Wish I Were a Little Bird—Rodney
In Sunny June—Rodney
Jolly Young Waterman—Rodney
King William—Rodney
Lass of Richmond Hill—Rodney
Little Brown Jug—Rodney
Maidens are Wearing—Rodney
Maid of Athens—Rodney
Maid of the Mill—Rodney
Molly, My Polly—Rodney
My Bonnie Lass, She Smileth—Rodney
Nancy Lee—Rodney
Old Folks at Home—Rodney
Old Joe—Rodney
Over the Hills and Far Away—Rodney
Pack Up Your Troubles—Rodney
Pretty Polly Oliver—Rodney
Queen of the May—Rodney
Ride a Cock Horse—Rodney
Rigs of Mallow—Rodney
Soldier, Soldier—Rodney
Spanish Lady—Rodney
Sweet and Low—Rodney
Ten Thousand Miles Away—Rodney
The Ash Grove—Rodney
The Blue Bells of Scotland—Rodney
The Brown Jug—Rodney
The Cobbler—Rodney
The Foggy, Foggy Dew—Rodney
The Garden Where the Praties Grow—Rodney
The Keel Row—Rodney
The Lark in the Morn—Rodney
The Last Rose of Summer—Rodney
The Lost Chord—Rodney
The Minstrel Boy—Rodney
The Miller of Dee—Rodney
The Quaker's Wife—Rodney
The Rover—Rodney
The Soldier's Joy—Rodney
The Star of the County Down—Rodney
The Sweetest Little Bird—Rodney
The Water is Wide—Rodney
The Wreath—Rodney
Those Evening Bells—Rodney
Till There Was You—Rodney
Tom Bowling—Rodney
Tom Brown's Body—Rodney
Treasure Song—Rodney
Vive la Compagnie—Rodney
Water, Water—Rodney
When the Boats Come In—Rodney
Who Killed Cock Robin?—Rodney
You Are My Sunshine—Rodney
You, Me and the Wind—Rodney

Paper, Cloth Back, $1.00. Half Cloth, $1.25.

POPULAR ENGLISH SONGS AND BALLADS

FOR HIGH VOICE.

VOL. 2.

England has long been noted for her songs and ballads. This may be accounted for by the fact that the list of her composers embraces such names as Arne, Boyce, Davy, Dibdin, Shield, Shield, Dibdin, &c., and, among modern writers, such names as Parker, Monk, Barnby, and Macfarren. There is a vein of simple melody and honest feeling running through English song which appeals to the heart and remains with us. The present volume contains many pieces adapted to concert and recital use, with accompaniments well written, that add to the charm and effectiveness of the songs. The arrangement is by composers and teachers of recognized excellence, and the workmanship of the book is in keeping with its musical worth.

CONTENTS.

Auntie Maggie's Wedding—W. H. Havergal
Beauty and the Beast—(arr.)—Parker
Blow, Blow, Thou Winter Wind—Parke
Castle of Mey—Monk
Come, Let Us Make Good Cheer—Barnby
Come unto These Yellow Sands—Gounod (arr.)
Dark Eyed Sailor—Parker
Dear Harp of My Country—Barnby
Drink to Me Only—Arne
English Garden—Monk
Fair Phyllis I Saw—Barnby
Flowers of the Forest—Parker
Froggy Went a-Courting—Parker
God Save the Queen—arranged
Hark! Hark! the Lark—Monk
I Know a Bank—arranged
I Loved a Lass—arranged
John Anderson, My Jo—arranged
Kind Words are Sweetest—arranged
Love's Philosophy—arranged
Maid of the Mill—arranged
Merry, Merry, Hark the Lark—arranged
Now is the Month of Maying—arranged
O Waly, Waly—arranged
Packington's Pound—arranged
Proud Maisie—arranged
Robin Adair—arranged
Rose of Allendale—arranged
Send Round the Hat—arranged
Shepherd's Song—arranged
Skylark—arranged
Soldier, Soldier, Won't You Marry Me—arranged
Sweet Jenny Jones—arranged
The Ash Grove—arranged
The Blue Bells of Scotland—arranged
The Cobler—arranged
The Gentle Lass—arranged
The Keel Row—arranged
The Last Rose of Summer—arranged
The Lark in the Morning—arranged
The Miller of Dee—arranged
The Parting Glass—arranged
The Ploughboy—arranged
The Wind that Shakes the Barley—arranged
There is a Garden in Her Face—arranged
Tom Bowling—arranged
Where is Fancy Bred?—arranged
Who Killed Cock Robin?—arranged
You Are My Sunshine—arranged
Youth and Love—arranged

Contents of English Songs and Ballads, for Low Voice, Vol. I., and for High Voice, Vol. I., sent on application.

THEO. PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA.

THE NEW TEACHING AND THE PHILADELPHIA SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL.

The "New Teaching" teaches what to do, how to do it, and places the pupil in possession of the whys and wherefores in a way that forces him into its perfect doing, "in spite of himself," as it were. Every effect produced by artists is teachable. There will be a Faculty of teachers at this summer school, which can do all of this, and put the subject matter in hand so clearly that the students, especially those who take private lessons, can in turn teach it all to their own pupils, as far as they find them efficiently advanced for their exertion.

Not only in "Touch and Technic," but in several other important subjects necessary to the first-class teacher, will the students of this summer school be grounded. It is a "working knowledge," that will be given. The different touch effects, such as melody, neutralizing, finger-stroke, plangent, and the several chord touches, octave touches, bravura effects, pedal effects, and its artistic uses. Phrasing and expression, and how to teach them. Ways of meeting the numerous difficulties that come up in the teacher's daily work will be discussed, and help given.

The lecture will be, first of all, practical and helpful. They will give the teacher a broader outlook upon musical art and the best ways of teaching it. The aim of the management and its assistants is to give a fund of workable, everyday ideas which the students in attendance can take away with them and use successfully in their own teaching. Not a mass of vague theories, but actual, workable, and practical ways of doing, that they themselves can apply in their own work, both as teachers and performers.

Teachers and advanced pupils who expect to attend, will do well to make a note of the things upon which they wish information. Each can feel assured that there will be many others who will be interested in the same subject. In answering these questions before the class, the names of those seeking information will not be given.

One of the most valuable subjects taught, will be how to conduct weekly classes of private pupils, so as to give them conservatory advantages. Work for such classes will be marked out and explained, and the teacher put into possession of the knowledge for the best way of conducting them. This feature will be of great advantage in securing the confidence and good will of the pupils and parents of the teachers who take this course. Parents like to feel that their children are securing the best instruction, and through such means teachers can build up better and larger classes. An advantage that teachers will appreciate, is the fact that they will be considered by their communities as progressive enough to spend their vacation in the acquirement of the newest and best methods. This will greatly add to their popularity, and materially help in enlarging their classes, both in numbers and quality.

—About 90 per cent. of music pupils are school-girls. So much time is absorbed in drumming into their heads the theory of music that the average teacher cannot free himself from the idea that strict time must never be lost sight of. No more is it "strictness" than it is the feeling cultivated we have to learn not to deliberately play out of time, for without this there is no expression, no phrasing, no accentuation even, possible. No use to go into exercise about accuracy that is carried to the extreme to which this exaggeration has gone in many schools where the teacher is the slave of the rule book. The aim of the summer school will be to put teachers into the right line of work—work that is musical and natural and that will give pleasing results. It is easy enough to teach the fingers, but it is much harder to instruct them in the mechanism of expression, and not think that he has done his whole duty in urging them to observe "strict time."—Fred'k Corder.

THE NEXT MEETING OF THE M. T. N. A.

The next meeting of the Music Teachers' National Association has been called for the first week of July, to be held at Saratoga, with headquarters for all visitors at Congress Hall. All meetings will be held in the ballroom of that famous hotel, which seats over 800 people. There will be a grand reunion of all on Monday, July 2, with souvenir badges, and special exercises for the occasion. On Wednesday a large banquet will be given, and on Friday an excursion to the beautiful Saratoga Lake, with appropriate features accompanying.

The program will be full and will be given, and good and silver medals will be offered for the best and second best essays on "How Best to Study the Piano Method, and How Best to Study it in Practice," and "How Best to Study Singing," competition being open to all. The winners will be invited to read their essays before the meeting.

The sessions will be short and bright, with ample time for business, although the social feature will be especially fostered, and arrangements are being made to entertain all visitors in a delightful way. The place selected for the meeting is an attraction in itself, and while many members of the M. T. N. A. have, no doubt, visited it often, there will be some who know the famous resort from hearsay only, and to such it will be an additional inducement to attend.

The program will be issued shortly, and can be obtained by writing to the President, E. M. Bowman, Steinway Hall, New York City.

From what is said above, our readers will see that the managers are doing everything possible to make the meeting an interesting one, musically as well as socially, and we hope many will attend—coming to have a good time, and to go home taking with them revived and increased interest in the fraternity, thus giving new prosperity to the Association.

STOLEN CIRCUS MUSIC.—Renz, senior (of "Circus Renz" fame), was, during his whole life, so engrossed in his circus that other entertainments possessed no interest for him. One evening, however, his friends succeeded, after much effort, in dragging him into the Berlin opera-house. "Le Prophete" being the work performed. When the opera was concluded, Renz hastened back to his circus, where the performance was in full progress. Just then appeared before the audience a grand procession in pantomime, which the orchestra accompanied with the March from "Le Prophete," which Renz had just heard for the first time in the opera-house. Highly enraged, he rushed to the conductor of the orchestra. "Sir, what does this mean? Why do you not guard your music better?" he demanded. "I really do not understand you," faltered the astonished conductor. "Then I want to inform you that our music is being stolen from us. A half hour ago I heard in the opera-house the piece which you have just played. If that occurs again, I shall sue Hülsen (the opera manager) and discharge you." The conductor was silent. He was well aware that his aged chief was not only very musical, but also that the could brook no contradiction.

A SOUND PROOF ROOM.—A correspondent of Engineering, London, January 26, in an inquiry regarding the best method of making a perfectly sound-proof room, says that it is made by surrounding the room proper by. posts about 3 feet apart; the inner part of the posts is filled with sawdust and wood-wool. The cupboards are made on frames with paper, and these frames are nailed upon the top of the joists. The walls of the little music-box are sponged all over with casein glue, mixed with glue; they are then well whitewashed, and afterwards a thick layer of cork dust, well worked in, must be applied. If there is a fireplace it must be filled with chowsing or cut paper.

[The page contains a large amount of small-print advertising and musical listings in the left column, and two columns of editorial content to the right. There are no photographs, but there are decorative typographic elements: bold headlines, horizontal rules separating sections, and small ornamental type used in the song lists and contents. The left margin shows the edge of the page with slight darkening and a thin black border; the text columns are separated by narrow gutters. The top center has the newspaper title "THE ETUDE" in large uppercase letters, and the page number "100" is printed at the top left.]
THE ETUDE. 101

G. SCHIRMER, NEW YORK,
RECENT PUBLICATIONS.

SCHIRMER'S LIBRARY.

CHOPIN:
WORKS FOR THE PIANOFORTE.
REVISED AND FINGERED
BY
CARL MIKULI.

WALTZES (VOL. 27) AND NOCTURNES (VOL. 30).
PRICE 50 CENTS. PRICE 75 CENTS.
(Other Volumes in Preparation.)

The name of the complete edition of Chopin's works is legion.
Most of the editions are in many instances incorrect or unfair; many
have been prepared by amateur hands, and others again have been
compiled from editions unequalled up to a very few years ago, but
the importance of more recent and more trustworthy editions is now
recognized, and it is to place before the musical public a complete
edition of Chopin's works, in which every authenticated proof-
sheet is carefully compared, and, where necessary, a reference to
the composer's last intentions is given, that the present edition
has been undertaken. Carl Mikuli, the editor of the present edition,
is, without doubt, one of the best of living scholars and pianists.
A pupil of Chopin, and thoroughly conversant with his methods,
Mikuli's edition is the only one which can lay claim to the authen-
ticity which is so desirable. The fingerings are such as will be
found best adapted to the artist pupil of the present day, and the
numerous practical notes, by which the editor seeks to explain
the compositor and the compositor's intentions, will be of the
greatest service to the pupil and teacher. The present issue
contains the complete Nocturnes and Waltzes of Chopin, and
other volumes will follow in due course. A full prospectus, with
specimens and prices, will be forwarded on application.

Major C and His Friends.
BY
GRACE S. DUFF.

PRICE, CLOTH, $1.00

A well-defined and powerful trend in modern educational progress is
observable, in favor of the introduction of hand training, drawing, vocal
culture and other manual and technical exercises as part of the school
curriculum. The movement, though as yet only partially recognized, has
slowly but steadily gained ground, and many who were at first opposed
to it have become its warmest advocates. The advantages derived from
manual exercises and practical work in training the eye and hand and
in promoting habitual accuracy and precision of movement are now too
generally recognized to need further demonstrations. The subject treated
in the present volume, Major C and his Friends, is a sprightly and
pleasantly written narrative, dealing with the home instruction of a
number of bright and lively children in the various branches of practical
culture, including music. The book is written in a vein of quiet humor
and good sense, and should be welcomed by parents as an attractive and
suggestive contribution to the literature of education.

For Sale by all Music Dealers.

The Monthly Bulletins issued by G. Schirmer are
sent gratis to all interested in Music. They will be sent free
to any address.

TOUCH AND THE PEDALS.
BY W. J. HENDERSON.

A writer in the Musical Courier tells of a China-
man's description of the piano. He described it as a
four-legged beast which the Europeans make to sing at
will. The manner of playing, as it appeared to the
eyes of the wondering celestial, was picturesque. A
person, often a feeble young girl, sat down before the
beast; struck its white and black teeth and trod upon
its tail, whereupon it sang more loudly and sweetly than
the birds. I am glad that the singing of the beast im-
pressed the Chinese in that way. It has often seemed
to me that the treading upon the tail was taken literally,
and that the poor beast was screaming with pain. What
the Chinaman took for the animal's tail, was nothing
more or less than the pedals, and these, indeed, are
often trodden upon without mercy or judgment.

The history of the pedals of the piano ought to be
written by some patient and trustworthy delver into
mines of information. It would be quite as interesting
and instructive as the history of musical ornament,
which has been so admirably handled by Edward Dann-
reuther, and one or two others. Of course clavichords
were without pedals. The player could enlarge the
volume of tone slightly by increasing the finger pres-
sure. Indeed, owing to the direct communication of
finger-tones to the strings of the instrument, a consider-
able—though necessarily limited range—of dynamics
was possible. I have had the good fortune, through
the kindness of the excellent Morris Steinert, to be able
to experiment on good clavichords, and I speak there-
fore from experience.

In the Bruckers harpsichords there was an attempt to
reach some of the effects now attained by pedals. This
attempt consisted of adding to each pair of strings
tuned in unison, a third of shorter length and finer wire
tuned an octave higher. This somewhat increased the
power and brilliance of the tone. There was a second
key-board and stops which controlled the action of the
jacks on the strings. To be sure these contrivances
produced a very limited variety of effects. I have tried
them on a fine harpsichord of the Mozart period in Mr.
Steinert's collection, and can testify that nothing is ob-
tained save a moderate increase of tone, and such rich-
ness as comes from larger sonority. The stops em-
ployed in the harpsichord were put out of date by the
introduction of pedals, which were invented, according
to Macle (see "Muzick's Monument"), by John Hayward,
in 1670. Zumpe, who built in 1766, and later, had
stops near the player's left hand to raise the dampers.
Stein and some other Germans, borrowed from the
organ the idea of a lever to be pressed by the knee.
But the real piano and forte pedals were patented by
John Broadwood in 1788.

Naturally, pianists soon began to make use of the new
pedals, and in Beethoven's piano concerto in C and the
sonatas op. 101 (Hammer-Klavier), 100, 109, 110 and
111, we find explicit directions for their use. The soft
pedal, as it is popularly called, was extensively used by
the classic players, but it remained for Chopin to show
how both pedals could be employed alternately, or in
combination for the production of the most beautiful
effects of tone-color. Liszt, of course, added greatly to
our knowledge of this department of technique, as he
did to that of all others.

It is easy to perceive that the tendency to use the
pedals for obtaining only dynamic gradations is due to
a survival of traditions associated with the old pedals
and other stops of the harpsichord, which were capable
of no other effects. But I think it is utterly unneces-
sary to tell any modern teacher that the great masters of
piano playing do not use the pedals simply to increase
or diminish the loudness of the tone. It is true that
one cannot make a piano speak as fondly with the soft
pedal as on a violin, but there are very decided uses to
which the latter may be put in increasing the sense of
mellowness, and by loosening the relation of simultaneous
vibrations, and by their being crowded with simultaneous
tones, the impression of loudeness. But the truly
great artist never uses the pedals for any other purpose
than the production of variety in tone-color. As I have
already said, Chopin showed us how to do this; but
Liszt explored another resource of piano-playing which
gives myriads of new results. I refer to the varieties
of touch. By combining the manners of pedalling ex-
plained by Chopin, with the manners of touch revealed
by Liszt, we arrive at a host of novel and beautiful
effects, wholly unknown to the players of the classical era.

It is my purpose, at this time, simply to call the atten-
tion of teachers to the need of systematic instruction in
this art of pedalling, and in union with the resources of
touch. Even the great master, Rubinstein, has said
that he does not think we have yet learned how to ex-
haust the possibilities of the pedal. It is only lately
that any attempts have been made to systematize our
knowledge on the subject. For the most part, the
pianist has to find out for himself, the possibilities of the
pedal, and nine times out of ten when he has learned
how to produce some extraordinary effect, he prefers to
keep the knowledge to himself, so that no other pianist
may learn how to do the same thing. I remember that
when Anton Seidl was illustrating Mr. Krehbiel's lec-
tures on Wagner, he used to reproduce the full orches-
tral, marvellous way, the sustained horn tones in the "Tristan"
motif as announced just before "Tristan's entrance."
Mr. Seidl is not a pianist, but he always smiled and
changed the subject when asked how he did that.

I recently, however, ran across a book which opens
up this subject of pedalling in a most instructive man-
ner. It is called "The Pedals of the Pianoforte," by an
unknown German, and contains the substance of four lec-
tures delivered at the Vienna Conservatory of Music.
It is the book of a systematic teacher and a thorough
effect the pedals are capable of, and how they are to
be produced. Many valuable examples are given from
well-known compositions, and occasionally we are told
how some great pianist has produced certain beautiful
results. It seems to me that every teacher of piano,
playing ought to study Herr Schmidt's book. But I
do not think he ought to stop there, for admirable as
this book is, it does not exhaust the subject. It cer-
tainly does give all necessary information about the use
of the pedals alone; but it does not cover the possibili-
ties of the combination of the different kinds of pedalling
with the different kinds of touch.

Here, then, is a subject for original research. The
thoughtful teacher can find employment for many of his
leisure hours in experimenting on touch and pedal com-
binations, and noting the results. When he has elab-
orated a system—and I see no reason why he should not
do this—he can write a volume supplementary to Herr
Schmidt. Such a volume would be of incalculable
benefit to both students and teachers.

The Reproduction of Apollo's Hymn. — The keen-
est interest has been manifested throughout Europe
over reports of the reproduction of Apollo's Hymn
in Athens recently. Making due allowance for sen-
timental enthusiasm over the reappearance of a mu-
sic which has been buried 2,000 years, all accounts
agree in ascribing the highest musical merit to the
composition. One correspondent declares that every
one present was ravished by the charm of the music,
with its mingled originality, simplicity, and grandeur.
The Hymn occupied a quarter of an hour in rendering.
It was sung by a choir with piano accompaniment.
The King was quite overcome with emotion and re-
quested a repetition. This is by no means the first mu-
sical treasure of the ancient Greeks which has been
brought to light and translated. There are the music
of the rites of Pythian ode of Pindar, two hymns of Dio-
nysus to Calliope and Apollo, and a hymn by Mesom-
edes. None of these has particularly interesting mu-
sical forms. Apollo's Hymn is, however, much more
grand and majestic in its melody. There is one part
only, the Greek text replete harmony or part singing.
They had seven voices, whereas modern music has only
two, major and minor. Apollo's Hymn is of the Dorian
mode, which is described as dignified, severe and grave,
a sort of Gregorian chant. It will be published in
Paris shortly.

[End of page]

Description of non-textual elements:
- The page has a decorative masthead "THE ETUDE." centered at the top with the page number 101 at the upper right.
- The left column includes a large typographic advertisement block for G. Schirmer, New York, with ornate type for "CHOPIN: WORKS FOR THE PIANOFORTE" and other display typography (bold and varied sizes). There are rule lines and decorative spacing but no photographic images.
- The remainder of the page is filled with dense printed text in three columns, with occasional bolded or larger headings; there are no photographs or pictorial illustrations, only typographic ornamentation and varying type sizes.
THE ETUDE.

Valuable Book for the Student.

SCIENCE, ART, and HISTORY
OF
MUSIC,
By F. C. WADE

BOUND IN CLOTH, PRICE $1.50.

A Concise Treatise on the Principles of Acoustics and Tonality, together with the Complete System of Musical Notation, Interpretation, and an Outline of History, to which is added a Department of Theory of Pianoforte Technics.

PART I.—Contains a full and complete discussion on the laws of sound. The intensity, quality, and pitch of tones, number of vibrations of each distinct tone, ranging from 166 to 5000 per second. Methods of ascertaining the number of vibrations of any tone. Laws of vibrations of strings, organ pipes, etc. Effects of resonance. Philosophy of sounding-boards. Harmonic, or over tones. Resultant tones. The musical scale: Method of selecting the tones which form the scale, from the great over-abundance of possible tones. The equal temperament. Standards of pitch. Philosophy between concord and discord. Beats. Cause of the greater richness of certain chords than of others. Why the minor second is the harshest interval. Interference and the enforcement of Modes. Enharmonic scale. Philosophy of octaves. Tonal relationships. Relation between keys. Transposition. Intervals. The triad, etc., etc. Besides a host of other matters of tonality, in all forming a thorough foundation for the understanding of the deepest principles of harmony and advanced theory.

PART II.—Musical notation: Traces from the origin of the principles, and signs of notation. The stave, clefs, signature, etc. Accidentals and their origin. Names of octaves. Origin of the notes, Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, Si. Besides containing a complete list of all puzzling forms of musical notation and the exact method of performing them. The various forms of agreements; appoggiaturas, turns, trills, mordents, etc,—in short, an encyclopedia of musical notation.

PART III.—The interpretation of music. Laws of phrasing; accent, punctuation. Period construction; sections, phrases, motives. Polyphony, monodic, concerted, construction of the various forms of composition. Imitation; analysis of fugues, canons, etc. Musical "form;" analysis of symphonies, sonatas, and the various styles of classic music.

PART IV.—Theory of pianoforte technic. Position. Finger exercises; scales, arpeggios, etc., best methods of practice. General rules for the fingering of all kinds of passages, runs, and chords. Complete list of technics, studies, pieces, theoretical works, etc., used at the leading foreign and American conservatories, with instruction for teaching, etc., etc.

PART V.—The history of music. A complete history of the most interesting musical matters, from before the Christian Era to the present time.

List of chapters contained in Part V.
Chapter I.—Musical progress to the Christian Era.
Chapter II.—Composers and their music, from A. D. 1 to 1500.
Chapter III.—From Palestrina to Handel.
Chapter IV.—From Handel to Haydn.
Chapter V.—Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert.
Chapter VI.—Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schumann, and Wagner.
Chapter VII.—Other composers of the nineteenth century.
Chapter VIII.—American composers and musicians.

The above chapters also contain a full account of the other leading composers, the development of the oratorio, opera, orchestra, musical instruments, etc., etc.

PART VI.—Dictionary of music, containing all the important musical terms, instruments, and sketches of all the standard musicians, etc.

Handsomely bound in cloth. Price $1.50, by mail, postpaid.

PUBLISHED BY
THE S. BRAINARD'S SONS CO.,
CHICAGO, ILL.

REMINISCENCES OF MY TEACHING DAYS.

I must have been what Mr. Van Cleve would style a "musical crank," for I imagined that as soon as my career as a teacher was entered upon the whole army of young musical students would arise and call me blessed; I should lead them, by such sunny paths to well-springs of musical knowledge. Alas! I failed to realize that the same landscape seen through different eyes may be either a "perfect picture," or "that tiresome old view." One of my first pupils was a bright little girl of some ten or eleven summers. She "adored" music, if her mother was to be considered a judge, and I fully believed she would likewise adore practice; but not so easily were my dreams to be fulfilled. Her lesson was arranged for the most desirable morning hour, but in spite of all attempts to the contrary, her attention would wander to almost any other subject than the one in hand.

"Oh dear!" she exclaimed one day, "I'm sick and tired of being told to practise! Music ought to be made so one could learn it without so much work."

"But my dear," I remonstrated, "nothing worth having is to be obtained without work. Think of Beethoven; of the music he wrote that can never die, and then think how he was often compelled to leave his play sadly against his will, and even whipped to make him practise. Of course he suffered then, but now his name is a household word. The grandeur of his music survives——"

"Did you say he was whipped often?" my pupil interrupted.

"Yes, frequently, I believe."

"To make him practise?"

"Yes."

"And that's his picture?" pointing to one reposing on an easel hard by.

"Yes," I replied once more, and was about to launch into a panegyric upon his marvelous acquirements, when she continued, ignoring my wise remarks, but still gazing fixedly at the face of the master:

"I'm so glad you told me, for I've often wondered what made him look so cross, and now I know; 'twas because they whipped him, and I'm sure," she was becoming excited with the theme, "yes, I'm certain that in that sonata you played for mamma, when the bass is just like thunder tearing all up and down the clouds, I know when he wrote that he was thinking of the people who punished him, and wishing he could just get hold of 'em and grind 'em to powder."

And this was her idea of a Beethoven sonata! For a moment I was really discouraged; but remembering that a mind capable of grasping any decided impression, with such speed and certainty must also be fitted to appreciate the beauties of music when study had lightened the dark places, I took heart and went to work once more.

A way out of the difficulty soon suggested itself. I asked her if she would promise to play each period of her lesson through carefully three times at each practice hour, which with her came at nine in the morning, and two in the afternoon. She readily agreed to do this and kept her word. I was surprised to hear her mother say when she brought the little one for her next lesson:

"I don't know what's happened to Marjorie; I haven't had to tell her to practise once this week, and she's worked a good two hours and a half every day without even looking at the clock."

The average parent impressed me from the first as being the natural enemy of the music teacher, and when an unusually volatile mother appeared with a sleepy looking boy or girl whose aptitude could not be doubted, I felt certain she would declare the child a musical "phenomenon," and expect me to start him onto a concert artist the next season.

A vision of a young lady who called with "Old Black Joe," and "Come back to Erin," with variations—some of them not to be found on the printed page—passes before me in vivid contrast to the quiet little Miss with the wistful blue eyes, who, in a visible fear and trembling, played a Chopin nocturne in a way that brought its beauties before one in the most irresistible fashion, then asked so demurely if I supposed she ever could learn to play. She is a noted pianist now; while the other one is, I fancy, still playing "Old Black Joe."

Then the little boy whose one ambition was to become a butcher. He could only be induced to practise with the promise that I would intercede for him with his parents, if at first disliked to devote himself to music when the end of the year should come; but he must do his best if he would win my assistance. I was never called upon to talk his people over, for he became interested almost from the moment he fancied he might give it up if he chose.

Each pupil has his separate individuality; each parent his ardent hopes of accomplishing wonders, sometimes with most wretched material; and the teacher who would succeed, must be proficient, not only in music, but in the study of human nature as well; that he may determine the best course to pursue with each pupil, then having decided, do his duty, and leave the result in the hands of Providence. ERATO.

THE ROMANCE OF CELEBRATED PIECES.
THE MOONLIGHT SONATA.

Beethoven is said to have stated that the true composer, when a "great thought" strikes along the brain and flushes all the cheek, "is conscious that the whole essence of Deity is beaming upon him."

The idea is a charming one, and a work such as the Moonlight Sonata, pregnant with inspiration from the first bar to the last, would almost persuade one to receive it as glorious fact. Singularly enough, however, Beethoven is represented to have expressed surprise that this sonata made so deep an impression upon the public, and avowed his decided preference for the one in F sharp minor, op. 78. Certain it is that he was fond of playing the latter.

The so-called "Moonlight Sonata" is almost as wildly eclectic with respect to musical narrative as a bottle of ——— with cobwebs,—narrowish with more credit, however, to the imagination than the veracity of their originators.

Probably the most dramatic—if not the most barefaced—of these impositions upon the credulity of musical manias is a story printed some years ago, which described the mighty man of Bonn walking, with his noble head sunk upon his breast, in deep "thought," until the beautiful moonlight night, through a narrow and devious back street of Vienna. Suddenly, his impatient stride is arrested in front of a poor tenement by the feeble tinkling of a timeworn harpsichord issuing from a room on the ground floor. But there, although the voice of the battered chattel of an instrument was weak and querulous, the ear of the master was grasped as by a strong magnet; and with age and infirmities, the hands that had awoke the echoes in the most princely rooms were seized of one in whom Beethoven's keen perception recognized a fellow-member of the same great order—the universal Brotherhood of Music.

The door of the house standing slightly ajar, Beethoven walked near the room, and looking, to his astonishment beheld an old man and boy struggling to arouse the sleepy instrument. "Here," cried Beethoven, taking them, "have a little money, and go on; play more loudly and more with expression, and when I return I will hear you."

The door creaked and the old players disappeared. The moon shone, somehow, with peculiar charm, and as the cold thin rays fell across the cracked pavement, Beethoven's soul was moved with a tenderness he had not felt for some time. He sat down upon the step, and with his head bowed, listened. Presently there arose upon the air a strain which seemed to him like nothing he had ever heard. "By God," he cried, "this must be a man, I must hear more." He rushed in, to the astounding surprise of the little company, and seated himself at the dilapidated instrument. The old man and little boy had faintly ceased. Beethoven took what broken theme was there, and with his huge fingers seemed to elicit from the battered keys a tone, which sprang,—it was music—pure, simple, and ineffable. He played, and played with a passion which compelled tears. When at last he rose, the little boy, weeping with joy, flung his arms about his neck, and cried, "They shall not take him away; the god will come to our house." When Beethoven left the house the moon had sunk, and it is said that the first bar of the sonata was written before he reached his home.

If there is a touch of romance in the story, there is also a touch of truth. Beethoven's life in Vienna was a hard struggle. He was poor, and the old harpsichord and its broken chords were the instruments he had to handle in early years. But it is not probable that such a scene as the one detailed took place. The Moonlight Sonata was composed in 1801, dedicated to Giulietta Guicciardi, and published in the same year. It was written, not in a night, but after much thought and study. The first movement, marked "Adagio sostenuto," is one of the most remarkable movements in music, not for its arpeggiated accompaniment alone, but for the sustained and mysterious atmosphere which pervades it. The second movement, "Allegretto," is a light intermezzo. The third movement, "Presto agitato," is stormy and passionate, and contrasts strongly with the soft, dreamy first movement. That the work is one of the most beautiful products of Beethoven's genius is beyond dispute.

Description of non-textual elements:
- The page is a black-and-white newspaper or magazine page with three columns. The left column is an advertisement for a book (Science, Art, and History of Music) with decorative and varied typography, including large bold headings and smaller explanatory text blocks. The middle and right columns contain article text in narrow column format with small serif type. There are dividing rules (thin horizontal and vertical lines) separating sections. No photographic images of people are present—only typographic ornamentation and decorative fonts used for headings. The paper appears slightly aged with faint speckling and marginal darkening.
THE ETUDE. 103

The best, if not the only, School of Technic
KNOWN TO
PIANOFORTE PEDAGOGIOS.

TOUCH AND
TECHNIC.
BY DR. WM. MASON.

THEODORE PRESSER, 1708 Chestnut St.,
Philadelphia, Pa., Publisher.

IN FOUR BOOKS:
PART I.—The Two-Finger Exercises
(School of Touch).
PART II.—The Scales Rhythmically
Treated (School of Brilliant Passages).
PART III.—Arpeggios Rhythmically
Treated (Passage School).
PART IV.—School of Octave and Bravura
Playing.

PRICE OF EACH $1.00.

THE ENTIRE SERIES OF
Touch and Technic
comprise an original system for the development
of a complete technic, from the beginner to the
finished artist. Its distinguishing characteristics
are: An active use of the pupil's mind in techni-
cal work, with the resultant rapid and thorough
development; the application of accents, thus
developing a true rhythm; a discriminating touch
that leads to every variety of tone color and dyna-
mic quality, and an effective system of velocity
practice that secures the necessary facility and
speed of execution. All of which is applied to
the artistic and expressive rendition of musical
compositions. They are printed in separate vol-
umes, in order to enable teachers who are de-
pendent upon some other system of technics to
add to their present stock the particular part of
Mason's System which they happen to need.
Experience has shown that teachers differ greatly
in their estimation of the relative value of the
four elements in Mason's System, and the publi-
cation in separate volumes is intended to enable
every one to select the particular part he desires.
The value of the "Principle" of accentuation ap-
plied to Exercises is now so generally recognized
by all teachers and virtuosi that every book of
technics now contains more or less of it. Never-
theless, as Dr. Mason was the originator of the
principle, no application of it has been so
ingenious and thorough as his.
This work is a wholly new exposition of the
subject, representing the ripe musical experi-
ence of the distinguished author, who is a teacher
and a virtuosi by the Grace of God.

We have never offered teachers more valuable
works than these.

FLOTSAM AND JETSAM.

The question as to whether American students should
go abroad for study is still a vexed one. Much, pro and
con, has been written about it. It may be viewed from
so many standpoints, and the personal relationship of
the writer, whoever he may be, to it, has so much bear-
ing upon the value of his opinion that it promises to
remain an unsettled problem for some time.

There come to the surface, however, occasional items of
interest, which do much to decide individuals as to what
is for their best interests. The following excerpts from
letters by Fannie Edgar Thomas to the Musical Courier,
from Paris, will be of great interest and help to intend-
ing students abroad. She quotes M. Marsick, professor
of violin at the Conservatory of Paris:—

"I feel intensely attracted toward America artistically.
Never in the history of nations has there been a record
of such prodigious, progressive enterprise, and at the
same time a temperament endowed with such rich
artistic material as is in America. I do not conceive
of this latent power hereafter. We older countries see
it for you.

"I have studied with deep interest our American
pupils here. They are wholly different and much more
susceptible musically than the ordinary European stu-
dent. Americans are endowed with temperament, with
rare intelligence and grasp of comprehension, and are
ready to learn by imitation. They yield intensely to
musical expression. If I can do anything with them, it
is by being quick to observe and to act.

"First, they lack the moral spirit that comes from
their home training. They have not had proper and
sincere home training. All the other things that are
lacking in the pupils are due to the influence of our
system of life at home. They have too many amusements,
and they do not have the same love for reading, think-
ing, and music, that their European compeers have.

"Second, they lack constant primary musical instruc-
tion. Their training begins in this country at the mid-
dle. They build on art, on the surface, before going
deep. Their talent is being developed, but the ground-
work, the real basis, is being suppressed, for the need
of primary instruction. Music must begin with the chil-
dren and advanced work. No trade or profession is then
prepared for."

Foreign criticism on American musical training are
not always to be commended for their accuracy, but
there is some truth in the point. There is a "lack" of
the musical spirit that comes from reading, thinking,
and tasting music.

Many teachers who read these lines will remember
many instances in their own experience when this lack
has been a real bar to the further progress. And,
dare I say it, some who also read these lines will feel
in their own consciousness, this lack. Then, again,
we are all too familiar with "beginning on top" in
study. We have all lamented the lack of perseverance and
concentration, patient foundation training that prepares
for higher work. Pages might be written concerning this
serious drawback to musical progress in America.
Our pupils must be placed under more careful systems
of training. Such things as a careful laying out of
preparatory studies, a logical order, and a wholesome
development of details, is the only sure path to art.
American teachers must know and as they propose to in-
struct must ever be reminded of the indications of better
things.

Our difficulty is too much struggling to demonstrate
"my method" as the best, yea, the only one thing.

"Unless endowed symmetrically, one should not make
a life-work of music. It is no use starting upon a career
with but one or two of the many gifts necessary to suc-
cess. One highly endowed must equally carry faith
through miscalculation. Another by lack of application.
Art is a comparative circumstance. One must read, study,
think, work, behave.

"As to practice, it is quality, not quantity, that makes
profitable practice. It depends on natural endowment
and preparation. I seldom practise more than three
hours a day. Some can study profitably through five
and six. Much of my thought was given to the analy-
sis of motion."

In keeping with the opening paragraph is our close.
If the question as to whether American students should
go abroad for study is a vexed one, the subject for dis-
cussion presented in M. Marsick's concluding paragraph
is still more so. Will women ever excel in art? Now
arises the old dissension. Very earnest are the advo-
cates on either side; many arguments are made pro and
con; one side uses the brain and offers the other the
heart. The men and women who have written upon the
subject have made both sides of the case plausible.
We must, however, conclude that women who devote
themselves to pure art may reach very high attainments,
and often surpass men in taste and feeling; but it is
questionable if, as a rule, they can obtain the same
endurance and the same comprehensive outlook which
the career of the male professional demands. A. L. MANCHESTER.

A PLEA FOR OUTSIDE STUDIES.
BY THALER BLAKE.

The greatest aid to a professional musician, outside of
his art, is a college education, or its equivalent in private
study.

The cultured and refined gentleman—the scholarly
musician—is, happily, multiplying of late years, since
musicians have learned to take advantage that the
well-balanced brain must needs have had other training
than art alone.

It is only well, of higher recognition of their pro-
fession, if they desire to rank in influence and prestige
with the physician, the lawyer, or the divine, they must
become their equal educationally. A man thoroughly
posted on musical matters, but uncouth in his speech,
or boorish in his manners, is a decided bore, to say the
least, to those with whom he comes in contact. No man
can excuse a neglected education, for "where there is a
will, there is a way."

The successful lawyer or scientist who is learned in
his specialty is almost without exception a well in-
formed man along many other lines of mental activity.
The musician will not likely entertain the idea that they
cannot do as well as others.

No one conversant with these matters but will know
that by the labor of a lifetime the accomplishments of
such men have been acquired at odd moments, or in
the few hours of the day spared daily from their profes-
sional labor. An hour or two given daily to studies most
likely will produce, in time, a result the student may be
proud of. The mental training derived from other sub-
jects of thought is of daily value to the musician. The
mere habit of attention and thinking and of carrying
his thought to an end is of use. To acquire a knowl-
edge of literature, or the sciences, is worth more to the
musician than many of the trifling accomplishments
which he sometimes prides himself upon. The profes-
sion at large could most likely find profit from much
more "outside" study.

Non-textual images and page description:
- Large masthead reading "THE ETUDE." centered across the top of the page, with the page number "103" in the upper right corner.
- A decorative ornamental flourish immediately under the advertisement headline "TOUCH AND TECHNIC" consisting of a curved, stylized ornamental line (a typographic ornament) separating the headline from the body copy.
- The page is laid out in three columns of dense text with narrow margins and small decorative rule lines separating sections. There are some small spots, smudges and faint fold/crease marks visible on the paper, and the left edge shows the bound margin of the original publication. No photographs of people are present; only typographic ornamentation and printed text.
104.                                                                                          THE ETUDE.

Novello, Ewer & Co.,
21 EAST 17th STREET
(3 Doors West of Broadway.)
NEW YORK.

SOLE AGENTS IN THE UNITED STATES FOR
MESSRS. NOVELLO, EWER & CO.,
CHAPPELL & CO.,
ROBERT COOKS & CO.,
J. B. CRAMER & CO.,
HODGKINSON & CREW,
HUTCHINGS & ROMER,
J. & J. HOPKINSON,
OF LONDON, ENGLAND.

PROGRESSIVE STUDIES FOR THE PIANOFORTE
EDITED, ARRANGED IN GROUPS, AND THE FINGERING
REVISED AND SUPPLEMENTED BY
FRANKLIN TAYLOR.

This Collection of Studies is intended to illustrate the various elements of a complete course of pianoforte technique, and to provide students with the means of attacking and overcoming the different special difficulties which have to be encountered. (With this view, the Studies have been arranged in groups, those in each group being placed in progressive order and having reference to some one particular difficulty.) The greater part of the Studies themselves have been selected from the standard works of the most eminent Study-writers, and with these are included numerous others which, though of equally great practical utility, have hitherto been, less generally accessible.

1. FIVE-FINGER STUDIES ........................................Part 1
2. SCALES ...........................................................Part 1
3. BROKEN CHORDS ...............................................Part 1
4. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
5. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
6. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
7. LEFT HAND ....................................................Part 1
8. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
9. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
10. ARPEGGIO ..................................................Part 1
11. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
12. VELOCITY ..................................................Part 1
13. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
14. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
15. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
16. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
17. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
18. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
19. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
20. FIGURES IN SEQUENCE ....................................Part 1
21. " " " " " ................................................Part 1
22. BROKEN THIRDS, SIXTHS, AND OC- ...Part 1
23. BROKEN THIRDS, SIXTHS, AND OC- ...Part 1
24. " " " " " ...........................Part 1
25. SHAKES ...................................................Part 1
26. " " " " " .............................................Part 1
27. DOUBLE NOTES ...........................................Part 1
28. " " " " " .............................................Part 1
29. OCTAVES .................................................Part 1
30. " " " " " .............................................Part 1
31. CHORDS .................................................Part 1
32. " " " " " .............................................Part 1
33. STACCATO ...............................................Part 1
34. " " " " " .............................................Part 1
35. REPETITION AND TREMOLO ..........................Part 1
36. PART PLAYING ........................................Part 1
37. ORNAMENTS ............................................Part 1
38. " " " " " .............................................Part 1
39. ACCOMPANIED MELODY .............................Part 1
40. EXTENSIONS AND SKIPS .............................Part 1
41. RHYTHM ................................................Part 1
42. " " " " " .............................................Part 1

FIFTY-TWO BOOKS, PRICE 50 CTS. EACH.

NOVELLO, EWER & CO.,
21 EAST 17th STREET (3 Doors West of Broadway),
NEW YORK.

[There is a small decorative curved line and flourish to the left of the heading Novello, Ewer & Co.]

Questions and Answers.

[Our subscribers are invited to send in questions for this department. Please write them on one side of the paper only, and not with other things on the same sheet. IN EVERY CASE THE WRITER'S FULL ADDRESS MUST BE GIVEN, or the questions will receive no attention. In no case will the writers' names be printed in the QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS. Questions that have no general interest will not receive attention.]

N. B. — The name of Bartholdy, which is sometimes found in connection with Mendelssohn's name, is the maiden name of his mother. As she was of distinguished family, this name was taken to retain her name after marriage.

M. A. M. — Ethelbert Nevin was born in Pittsburg, 1862, and now makes his home in Boston. He was a pupil of Carl Kindworthy and Hans von Bulow.

J. L. McC. — The following are the opus of von Wilm that are suitable for children: Opus 81 and 12; of Gurliitt, opus 107, 101, and 197 are good for that purpose.

R. H. — Eduard Lassen is a Danish composer, born in Copenhagen, April 13, 1830. He is one of the foremost song-writers of the present day, and an eminent conductor. Has composed several operas, orchestral and choral works, pianoforte music, etc.

K. S., Nevada, Mo. — The new international pitch of A is 435 vibrations. The violin has a practical scale of 5 to 4, and E bears to A the ratio of 6 to 5. With these data you can calculate the number of vibrations of C sharp and E by the simple rule of three.

B. M., H., Newark, Ohio. — Corn suspensions means suspensively; con trappo means with transport; überspannt is unctuous — [probably "unspanned"].

A. L. B., Marlboro, Mass. — What you need is a good musical dictionary, such as one of the English dictionaries, or a musical one. If you find words which are not in your dictionary, let me know and I will try to help you out.

1. Trylonline — the pronounced two-ring; diatonic with the two ks long and the o short; culminate with king, as a in axe, and the accent on the first syllable; Schottische, shottische.

2. A chromatic semitone is expressed by notes written on the same staff, degrees, as C, C sharp; a diatonic semitone requires two staff degrees for its representation, as C D flat.

3. The character: (illegible symbol) means portato, or legato-staccato; it signifies that the note over which it is placed is to be slightly detached and played quite heavily.

5. By Loeschhorn's studies, Op. 66, after Koehler's Op. 50. J. C. F.

A. B. C. — Please explain common, triple, and compound time. If I find the subject anything but clear in "Burrowes' Primer." Ans. — Simple time has two, and three beats to a measure. Compound time is made by putting two or more measures of simple into one longer measure. The so-called "common time," is made by putting together two measures of two beats, thus making a measure of four beats, whence the necessity for the accent on the third beat, thus being an accented beat in the original, for, as you doubtless know, the first tone of every measure has an accent. Six time is made by putting together two measures of three beats, so making a measure of six beats, the accents falling on the first and fourth beats. Nine time is made of three measures of three beats, thus having accents on the first, fourth, and seventh beats. Twelve time is made of two measures of six beats, which is really a "double compound time." This is why the accents are stronger on the first and seventh beats, and lighter on the fourth and tenth beats. C. W. L.

N. R. — How can I make a pupil count aloud? She has taken lessons for two years before coming to me, and now says that she cannot count. 2. How can a pupil be taught to play without letting the nails hit the key? The pupil in mind keeps up a continual clicking of nails on the ivory. Ans. — 1. Take a slow piece of complicated time, such as an easy organ piece (see Vol. II., of "Urania" Reed Organ Melodious Studies), or one of Bach's "Inventions," and require each note to have its own just and exact time-value, holding every key its true duration. This requires that the pupil should make a special study of time, calculating how long to hold the key for each note. The pieces and studies selected should be otherwise easy, yet full of time difficulties. Also, play four-hand arrangements of classic music with her. The pupil must be taught to think or calculate out the true value of each note, and then to count it aloud, feeling its rhythm. 2. Keep the nails short; but give scales and easy studies for the express purpose of feeling the contact of the finger with its key on the ball, or tip of the finger, somewhat hack from the nail. Make a specialty of feeling the place of finger-contact, playing only for this feeling. C. W. L.

C. T. — One is called upon to play when he feels that his fingers are stiff and will not go well. Is it necessary quickly to be nipped into form? Ans. — Yes. Straighten out the fingers and close them at the middle, or second joint, not too firmly, however; close them so that the balls of the fingers press the roots of the fingers lightly. Then close the whole fist with somewhat of a firm grasp; open and shut the fist several times. Also, rub the palms till the friction makes them glow. C. W. L.

N. B. — Is it advisable to use instruction books? I see that they are discouraged by some writers. 1. Should scales be taught during the first term, to a beginner? 3. I have a pupil who has taken a term, but has accomplished nothing. How can I make her more musically? Ans. — 1. There may be a very few teachers who have had sufficient experience to get along as well without as with an instruction book; but the great majority of teachers need the graded and well laid out plan of instruction found in first-class instruction books. Langdon's "Pianoforte Method" gives carefully-arranged material for the first lessons, beginning at the very beginning, and covering the ground most thoroughly, yet in an interesting and pleasing way. It calls out the native feeling for music that there may be in the pupil. 2. Scales can be taught the latter part of the first term of lessons to the average pupil; but there needs to be a preparation for them in a separate drill of the thumb in passing under the hand, and of the third and fourth fingers in passing over the thumb. It is also well that the pupil should first feel a need of knowing how to play a run. This is all provided for in the above-mentioned method. 3. Try easy four-hand music. Be sure to select some very easy and pleasing melody for her, and teach her in your presence to play a period or more of it by accurately repetitious measures, over and over, then the same with phrases, then the whole period, calling her particular attention to the fact that each phrase really says something to her; this after she can play it fairly. Teach her that she can make the piano sing, and lead her to listen for musical effects. By teaching to sing short melodies, and then to pick them out on the piano by ear. When the child finds that she is making real music, rather than merely playing notes and keys, if there is any music in her soul, she will begin to realize pleasure, then comes interest and success.

A. P. — 1. Can a beginner take lessons on a piano and do his practice on a reed organ, and accomplish good results in fingering and in general advancement? 2. What are the best manuals or methods of harmony for classes? Ans. — 1. So far as notes-values, letters, names of keys, and the common things of notation are concerned, yes; but the more difficult part of playing, piano-touch, cannot be learned in that way. But, if the pupil is to continue a reed organ player, he can take his lessons on a piano, even on a distant gain in some things. However, his teacher should give him special instruction in the best use of his organ. 2. It all depends. Howard's "Method of Harmony" is one of the most popular; Weitzmann's is good. The new one is Goodrich's "Harmony from the Composer's Standpoint." Clark's "Method for Piano Students" is very good. C. W. L.

M. K. T. — Will THE ETUDE give the correct pronunciation of the Italian word Ebbaldro? Ans. — It sounds better than it looks. An authority gives it pronunciations as follows: "Pronounce the first syllable as I in idol, only lightly accenting the second syllable, which is pronounced silette, and the third vod — i-sto-ved-ro." [This seems odd; possibly misread.]

G. F. W. — Are reed organ makers advancing the quality of their work from the tone-quality side? Ans. — Since the success of the Voxatone the best organ makers have been experimenting with pressure bellows, suction bellows only being found in the common reed organ. There are four leading firms now advertise improved instruments — organs that have new effects and greater art capabilities. Progressive teachers will do well to give their pupils careful attention, and be para- promptly present sense test to examine these new instruments. It is a pity that musical people do not also have a good reed organ in the music room with the piano, for there is a wealth of superior and sublime music that is finely arranged for the two instruments together, and also with the addition of violin, flute, or cornet. The reed organ is gaining in popularity with the best musicians, for the leading makers are now making an instrument that challenges favorable attention. C. W. L.

F. E. A. — I am a musical amateur and my business takes me among musical people. I hear a great deal of amateur playing, but so few who play with any satisfaction. This is often as true of those who have a good technique and know the practice as of the less ambitious pianists. Why is this? Ans. — Your question should have a series of articles rather than a short paragraph for its answer. There is a love of display and ostentatious talent, it is evident that there is a lack of clear phrasing, of contrast, and especially of the really soft pianissimo in expression. There is a lack in art, a lack of feeling, also a due appreciation of the tone significance of the inner doing of the very small things that make up superior playing. Too many amateurs try to astonish rather than please; they attempt showy music rather than musical music. As "all" pupils the taste of food that has no salt in it, so much of the lack you speak of is a lack of touch. Too many players allow heavier passages to go un conquered. Almost universal is the fault of attempting pieces that are beyond the player's musical and technical powers at good playing. C. W. L.

E. T. O. — There is quite a number of people here who are musical. What can we do for our musical improvement, and for elevating the musical tone of our town? Ans. — First organize a musical club, at which you shall have good programs played and sung, and essays given. Arrange with good artists to give your recitals, and let each member of the club sell tickets, and by your combined efforts you can sell enough to make a recital a financial success. C. W. L.

S. B. C. — One of the most satisfactory piano methods for the younger pupil is Lichner's "Kobler Method," Vol. I, which is original and published in the United States by the above firm. The characters used in Grands ad Parnasse, at the bottom of the pages, give the side of "Adrian's Grand Cours, the above double whose notes, and this is the customary way of writing them."

M. H. — There is a story of the "Moonlight Sonata" in another part of the paper. I would advise you to get Beethoven's "Sonatas Explained," by von Bülow.

G. S. — "Opus" means Opus. Oxford. The degree of Mus. Doc being bestowed by the University of Oxford.

M. S. N. — Concerning Novello, the song writer, is not related to Ethelbert Nevin. A short sketch of the latter will be found in another number in this issue.

[The remainder of the column contains many shorter answers and queries continuing on detailed technical points, names, and brief historical notes. The layout is in small print organized in narrow columns and subdivided by initials of correspondents and answerers.]

[Non-textual images and decorations: At the top left under the Novello heading there is a small decorative curved flourish and an ornamental rule beneath the address. The page has ornamental rule lines separating the advertisement from the Questions and Answers column. There are no photographs; the page contains decorative typography, small ornamental flourishes, and column rules typical of a 19th-century periodical.]
I can’t confidently extract every word accurately from this scan because parts of the page are blurred and small at this resolution. To guarantee a fully accurate transcription I’ll need a higher-resolution scan or a closer crop. Below I’ve transcribed everything I can read clearly and I describe the rest of the page so you can tell me where to focus (or supply a clearer image). I have not added or guessed words where the image was unreadable — where text is uncertain I mark it as [illegible] or describe its content.

Description of the image (non-textual)
- A single scanned page from a vintage periodical. At the top center is the title “THE ETUDE.” The page number “105” appears at the top right. The page is laid out in three narrow columns of small serif type. There are a few section headings in small caps (for example “GENERAL REVIEW IN HARMONY.” and “A SIDE TALK WITH PARENTS.”). The lower-right column contains an essay or article. There are no photographs; the page is text only with ornamental rules and column separations.

Transcription of clearly legible text (verbatim where readable)

Header:
THE ETUDE. 105

Left column (selected readable portions):
MARIE H., Ont.—A girl who can learn to play the piano can ordinarily learn to play the flute, and if she is delicate in the sense of not having good vital capacity or breathing power, brute practice is detrimental rather than otherwise and less harm than piano practice. The breathing exercises of any gymnastic system are to be recommended as preparatory to flute study, and any reliable music dealer can furnish a good instruction book for the instrument.

MRS. T. F., Wis.—It is excellent discipline to practice technical fingering work in such positions as require the thumb to play black keys; but, in playing everything should be done in the easiest possible manner. The pushing of the forearm forward and backward, as is necessary to get the thumb over the black keys, is an exertion, and should be avoided, unless something is gained that is of commensurate value. When such a gain is possible, no rule, by whose soreness made, should ever be allowed to stand in the way of the exertion.

K. H., Mich.—[longer letter/reply; several paragraphs; much of this letter is partially legible but several lines are blurred and hard to read accurately; includes discussion of Clementi's “Gradus” and technical remarks about fingering and theory]

GENERAL REVIEW IN HARMONY.
(heading clear)

[This section contains a numbered list of review questions. The top portion of the list is partially blurred; I could read many individual questions but some numbers and words are uncertain. I include only those that are clearly legible below.]

Clear items in GENERAL REVIEW IN HARMONY (first block; some numbers uncertain):
1. What is an interval?
2. What are degrees?
3. What are steps and half-steps?
4. Give the general division of intervals, with their subdivisions, and the species contained in each.
5. How far are degrees reckoned in naming intervals?
6. How are tenths, elevenths, etc., usually reckoned?
7. Give examples of ...
8. What is the interval from C sharp to A flat?
9. [illegible]
10. What is an enharmonic interval? Example.
11. Which intervals are consonant?
12. Which are the perfect consonances?
13. What is an imperfect ...
14. When is an interval said to be inverted?
15. What is the result from inverting a prime, second, third, etc.?
16. How is the numerator of intervals affected by inversion?
17. What is the meaning of diatonic ?
18. What is the difference between a diatonic and a chromatic semitone?
19. What are the names of the different degrees?
20. How are the different octaves designated by letters?
21. Where is two-lined D?
22. [illegible]
23. [illegible]
24. [illegible]
25. [illegible]
26. [illegible]
27. [illegible]
28. [illegible]
29. [illegible]

Middle column (numbered harmony questions — clearly legible portion)
30. What is the ascending order of intervals of the major scale?
31. What is the object of transposing the scale, or key?
32. What is the natural order of transposing the scales, and why?
33. How far may we transpose the scale by fifths?
34. “        “        “ by fourths?
35. What is the utility of both systems, sharps and flats; and why do we substitute one for the other, as, two flats for ten sharps, etc.?
36. Give the theoretical names of the degrees of a diatonic scale?
37. In the key of G, which is the dominant?
38. “    “    F sharp, which is the leading tone?
39. “    “    B flat, which is the sub-dominant?
40. What is the name of sub-dominant in the key of E flat?
41. What is the name of super tone in the key of A?
42. “        “        “ dominant in the key of F?
43. In what major key is E the leading tone?
44. “        “        G sharp the dominant?
45. “        “        C sharp the leading tone?
46. What is the signature of B flat major?
47. “        “        E flat ?
48. “        “        A flat ?
49. When are keys said to be related?
50. What is the relative minor of a major key?
51. “        “        F sharp major?
52. “        “        C major?
53. “        “        G flat?
54. “        “        major “ “ minor?
55. “        “        signature of C minor?
56. “        “        signature of B minor?
57. “        “        signature of E flat minor?
58. “        “        two keys have the signature of 2 sharps?
59. “        “        “    “    “    3 flats?
60. “        “        “    “    “    1 flat?
61. “        “        “    “    “    1 sharp?
62. What are the essential intervals of a common chord, or triad?
63. What intervals constitute a diminished triad?
64. “        “    minor
65. “        “    augmented
66. What is the difference between a diminished and a minor triad?
67. What is the difference between a diminished and an augmented triad?
68. What is the difference between a minor and a major triad?
69. What is the difference between a minor and an augmented triad?
70. What is the difference between a diminished and a minor (or vice versa)? [some repetition/unclear]
71. What is the difference between a minor and a major ? [partial]
72. What is the difference between a minor and an augmented triad? [repeat; some repetition in image]
73. What is the difference between a major and an augmented triad?
74. What is the prominent character of a major triad?
75. “        “    “    “ of a minor “
76. “        “    “    “ of diminished “
77. Upon which degrees of the major scale do we find major triads?
78. Upon which degrees of the major scale do we find minor triads?
79. Is there any other variety here presented, and if so, what?
80. Name the root and character of each of the following triads: CEG, BDF, ACE, C E G [some triads listed — some triads are blurred]
81. Name the root, and character of each of the following triads: C E G, B D F, etc. [list continues; parts illegible]
82. Write the diminished, minor, major and augmented triads of E.

[The numbering continues but text becomes increasingly blurred toward the right side of the middle column; many questions repeat variants about triads, signatures, and degrees.]

Right column (essay — title and opening paragraphs readable)
A SIDE TALK WITH PARENTS.
BY MARION HILL.

The faithful Peneleopes who unravelled during the night all the ingenious mesh her fingers had woven in the daytime, had, in her madness a method which claims our admiration. But what can we say in defence [defense] of those who pursue similar tactics with no other aim than a wanton destruction of the results of labor? And what can those parents say in their own defense, who spend their hard-won money in procuring music instruction for their children, and are zealously present during their progress, only to discourage each student, in "that way"? Let me explain.

As a preliminary to the explanation, arise other questions — to be answered. Out of the hundreds and thousands of young people who take music lessons, how many ever develop into even fair players? How many "graduate" so to speak, without ability to play a waltz in time, or a march with spirit? How many even make progress which merits so soon as they reach an age at which they are allowed to judge for themselves? What progress has been at work turning that which ought to be a soul-elevating, pleasure-blessed accomplishment into an irksome burden to be shaken off as soon as may be? Where lies the blame?

To be sure, a certain small percentage of young people seem to be born "giftless," and much is never expected of them. They are given music just as feathers are put in their hats, because it is the style. Then there are others who are forced to practise in spite of their manifest lack of musical aptitude. This forcing has oftentimes been written about in terms which represent it as an injustice to the child, but surely it is less of an injustice to have given him a chance at all. After making the above mentioned allowances the cause still remains unaccounted for, an enormous number of deserters.

The cause is to be sought for in a deeper injustice, a more grievous error,—I refer to the external snubbing—the little student receives at home from its nearest relatives.

"Don't pick out tunes with one finger,—you make me nervous."

"For mercy's sake, shut the piano and stop drumming!"

"Can't you put on the soft pedal? I want to read!"

"If I'm sorry you were learned a note. You do nothing but strum."

Or the remarks have a contrary but equally vexatious significance:—"Put down that book, and go to your practice."

"Lizzy child! if you were at your practice instead of lolling in bed, I would be less ashamed of you."

And so on, ad infinitum, but all adding to the pupil's growing disgust of the piano. Their music is always represented upon them as a task. They are too often scorned and bullied into playing their "pieces," the parent demanding the exhibition as a sort of quid pro quo for the money expended, instead of being asked to contribute their music as an addition to the family fireside pleasure. They need to be encouraged, not by being driven off to visitors (and probably "blown up" for blunders on the visitor's departure) but by the patient sympathetic encouragement which lies in being shown that the music is a divine blessing, a powerful joy-giver.

Annoying, lazy, ungrateful little buggers—[the printed word looks like "children" but part is blurred] often appear, but what sensitive, suffering little things they really are! Scarce an hour can pass but their honor is injured, or their ordinarily trained modesty is shocked, or their sensibilities are wrung and tortured. Remarks like those quoted above have extraordinary potency, not only to sting a young person, but to stick and cling and rankle. The older person sees what the child does not, that devotion to scales and exercises is necessary to produce the skilful player, but if once a child learns the love of music it will learn for and by itself to appreciate the value of earnest work. Their voluntary application will be of immeasurably more benefit to them than the compulsory practice, painful in which their hearts rebel and their very muscles protest.

How then, may this necessary love for music be brought to them, or developed within them? It will come when the piano is removed from the lonely corner of the 'best parlor,' and placed in the sitting room; it will come when the little students are allowed (not lawlessly but in proper hours) to pick out their harmless little tunes, and compose their monotonous little airs; it will come when their practice hour is artfully chosen so as not to clash directly with their dearly prized playmates and outdoor enjoyments. Above all, it will come when they are taught the wonderful mystery that music is a speech, a language which will translate their wayward modes into intelligible harmonies,—that music is a divine expression. Never fear lest they may not comprehend. Nothing is too high and holy for a child to get a glimpse of. It is easy to bring to little children, whose natures are thrilling with a passionate appreciation of all beautiful things, a comprehension of what is beautiful in music. The discrimination of the ear, the perception of good tone, the possession of a taste to relish the divinations of the human heart, will grow with their practice and better education. If something should be missed, too far-reaching a power to be lightly thrown aside.

[The remainder of the essay continues but the last lines are partly blurred; several paragraphs continue on complaints about parental attitude and suggestions how to foster children's love of music. The closing lines and signature line are partly legible but some words are blurred.]

---

If you want a fully accurate, line-by-line OCR/transcription of the entire page I can do that if you upload a higher-resolution image (300–600 dpi is best) or provide close-up crops of the three columns. Tell me which parts you most need first (left column letters, the GENERAL REVIEW question list, the numbered harmony questions in the middle, or the essay on the right), and I’ll prioritize a higher-accuracy transcription.
106

THE ETUDE.

LIFE OF RICHARD WAGNER.

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

My name is Wilhelm Richard Wagner, and I was born in Leipzig on the twenty-second day of May, 1813. My father, who was a police actuary, died six months after my birth.

My step-father, Ludwig Geyer, was an actor and a painter, and had written several comedies, — one of which, "The Slaughter of the Innocents," had considerable success. The family went to live with him in Dresden. He wished to make a painter of me, but I had decidedly a talent for drawing.

My step-father, too, died early — when I was only seven years old. A little while before his death I had learned to play on the piano "Weber's" "Lehrman" and some pieces by Redlich? and the "Jungfrauenzang," the quaint novelty; and on the day before he died he had me play them both over to him in an adjoining room. I heard him say in a faint voice to my mother, "What if he should have a talent for music?"

Early the next day, after he was dead, our mother came into the nursery, and said something to each of us children; to me she said, "He hoped that something worth having might be made of you."

As I remember that I long imagined something would be made of me.

With my ninth year I entered the Dresden Kreuzschule. I wanted to study; I had no thought of music. Two of my sisters were learning to play the piano; but I listened to them without taking lessons myself.

Nothing pleased me so much as "Der Freischütz." I often saw Weber pass our house when he came out of the rehearsals. I always looked upon him with religious awe.

At last my private tutor, who taught me to consult Cornelius Nepos, had to give me the piano lessons as well. I had hardly finished the first exercises in figuring when I began secretly to study and to learn the "Freischutz," at first without notes. My teacher once overheard me doing this, and pronounced that I would come to nothing. He was right; I have never in my life learned to play the piano. Still, I played there for myself alone, — nothing but overtures, and these with the most terrible fingering. It was impossible to me to play a passage clearly, and in this way I came to have a great horror of all "runs."

In Mozart's music I only liked the overture to the "Magic Flute;" "Don Juan" I disliked because it had the Italian text under it; this seemed to me supremely ridiculous.

This whole connection with music, however, was extremely of secondary importance. Greek, Latin, Mythology, and Ancient History made up my chief employment. I made two friends, too. One of us formed a school-fellow of ours had died, and the teachers set us the task of writing a poem on his death. The best poem was to be printed. Mine was printed, but only after I had cut out of it a good deal of bombast. I was then eleven years old.

I now longed to be a poet. I projected tragedies after the Greek model, imitated throughout by reading some of the tragedians, "Polydorus," "The Etolians" and the rest. I was thought at school to be apt at literary studies; even while I was in the third form I had translated the first twelve books of the Odyssey. At one time I began to learn English, solely that I might know Shakespeare thoroughly. I even made a metrical translation of Romeo's monologue.

My English, however, I soon dropped; but Shakespeare remained my model. Why should a great tragedy, more or less a compound of Hamlet and Lear, the plan was on the most stupendous scale. Forty-two persons perished in the course of the piece; and in order to perform it I found myself compelled to introduce the majority of them as ghosts; for otherwise I should have exhausted my personelle.

This piece occupied my attention for two years, during which time I left Dresden and the Kreuzschule and went to Leipzig. There, at the Nicholas seminary, I was put into the third form, after I had been in the second at the Dresden school; and this circumstance ridiculed me so, that from that time I let all my philological studies go by the board. I was idle and disorderly; and only my great tragedy kept its place in my heart.

While I was thinking, a new idea came into my mind. I had read all the lesser poets. My youthful articles — stories, and small descriptive pieces — were published in a magazine, and procured me a little reputation. The thought of composing music, however, did not yet occupy me. I had played about the piano, but without instruction, and my limited acquaintance with music consisted chiefly of an enjoyment of overtures and a blind enthusiasm for Weber.

But in the years when I was a school-boy at Leipzig, I was suddenly struck by the poetry of Beethoven. The first thing that excited me in him was the amazing grandeur of certain instrumental combinations. I had read of his symphonies, but I had not heard them. A friend lent me the score of the 3d symphony; I looked at it by the light of a guttering candle; its boldness, its inventiveness, astonished me. I read on and on; the passion which I had felt before for poets was nothing to this. I had not dreamed that such a thing, pure and absolute, could be possible.

Meanwhile this wild taste for music grew up in me, and, as is often the case, quite apart from instruction. I gave myself up where others go to study. But meanwhile my father, who had been a police actuary at Leipzig, dying so early, there was no means of bringing about any careful musical education for me. I entered the university at eighteen with a mind filled up with poetry and enthusiasm, and with the resolution to devote myself to literature.

I took my degree; I was a poor man; and the same old want of everything haunted me. I passed three years at the university, and then left for Germany, intending to pass some time as a writer. I wrote tragedy after tragedy, and the only thing that grew and increased within me was my conviction that music was the highest art.

I had read the poets; I had, as I said, imitated some of them; but I felt myself utterly wanting in elocution; it seemed to me that I could do nothing but break down some idea into glow and action. Music alone promised me the true expression of that absolute and ceaseless will which the drama demands.

I learned gradually to play the organ, and to compose simple things; my first dramatic fragments were spoken of amongst my friends, and I was made happy by their praise. I now thought only of dedicating my life to musical composition, my chief point being the drama.

Cultures delighted and fascinated me. I decided to be a musician.

Meanwhile, however, my great tragedy had been discovered by the family. They were extremely annoyed at it; for it was now revealed that I had utterly neglected my school studies for it, and I was thenceforth kept rigidly to their diligent continuance. Under these circumstances I kept my secret profession of music to myself; but I nevertheless composed, in the greatest secrecy, a sonata, a quartette, and an aria.

When I felt my musical studies sufficiently advanced, I at last came out with the disclosure. Naturally I had to meet with much opposition; for my relatives looked upon my inclination for music as also nothing but a passing fancy, since it was not justified by any preparatory studies, or especially by skill in any instrument.

I was then in my sixteenth year, and infected with the wildest mysticism by reading Hoffman; during the day, while half dozing, I had visions in which fantastical thoughts, and fancies appeared to me incarnate, and revealed to me their wonderful meaning; what I wrote of them was the purest nonsense. At last I was put under the teaching of a capable music-master. The poor man had sad trouble with me; he had to explain to me that what I looked upon as marvellous figures and powers were really intervals and chords. What could be more disappointing for my family than to find that I proved myself careless and unsystematic in this study also?

My teacher shook his head; and it certainly looked as though, in this, too, I should not come to anything sensible. My zeal for study gradually died away, and I preferred to write overtures for a full orchestra, one of which was once produced in the Leipzig theatre.

These overtures formed the culminating-point of my subudies. I chose to aid the clearer comprehension of any one who should study the parts, to write them in three different keys, — the stringed instruments red, the reed instruments green, and the brass instruments black. Beethoven's ninth symphony was to be a mere Pleyel's as to the sense of the word. Freshly composed and more melodious.

When it came to be performed I was especially injured by the regular repetition, every four bars throughout the piece, of a recurring fortissimo pound up to the drum; the audience were so used to those noises that at the third repetition of my overture they were enraged, and the performance was stopped. My teacher looked upon it as a joke.

It was thus that I published my first performance in the Leipzig theatre. I was then twenty years old.

I courted the Muse with passion, and I found my pleasures now in composition. I continued to become more and more acquainted with the dramatic world, and to prepare my music for the stage.

I made friends with poets, and enjoyed their society. There was one poet, of little public note, who had a great influence upon me. I read much of the older German plays; I found sunk there that which is now called the folk-spirit; and I felt that on that basis alone a dramatic music could be founded.

I wished to go to Paris and to hear things there, but my poverty and my necessities kept me at home. The year 1833 found me in Würzburg, a musical director to an amateur orchestra. I had plenty of work to do, but little pay.

In 1834 I was appointed actor and chorus-master at the theatre at Magdeburg. I there composed a number of pieces, and I had opportunities of hearing the works of the great masters performed.

During this time I wrote the music for "Die Feen," which was performed, and which I still look upon as the first essay of my earlier dramatic attempts. I meant it to be the first of a series of youthful essays; but the public success of such pieces was small. My employer, indeed, behaved towards me with a degree of meanness which aggravated my poverty and increased my need. I wrote, nevertheless, several orchestral pieces, and I tried to keep up courage.

I now, for the first time, felt the full weight of my position as a poor composer. I had studied passionately, but with no thought of secure maintenance. I had lived with enthusiasm, but without having any worldly establishment. I attempted to make myself known by sending pieces to the publishers; but their replies were often discouraging. At last I resolved to go to Paris, where I thought there might be more sympathy with the new thought; but the means failed me.

I found, however, that in order to do anything good I must get the experience of the theatre. In 1839 I was appointed conductor at Riga. I accepted; and there, in a provincial theatre, I learned the practical working of the stage. I performed wildly and energetically; but the artists were too often incapable of carrying out the plans I conceived, and the actors were careless.

At Riga I suffered from ill health; but I remarked the effect of the people in the town, and their influence on my own thoughts. I made friends with many local art-workers and artists. I studied the stage, and I made plans. At last I wrote "Rienzi" as a small attempt, which I hoped might be produced in Berlin.

"Rienzi" was performed first at Dresden, and with some success. This success, however, did not immediately procure me a permanent position. My life still continued uncertain. I afterwards went to Paris, where for a time I spent rather miserable days. There I studied, and read, and wrote; but I found the French people cold to my aims. I returned to Germany, where I had friends who assisted me sometimes.

I had friends, indeed, who put me in remembrance of my works. I had made during these years a large number of notes and studies for what afterward became my mature productions. I had in my head the ideas of a new form of music-drama. Beethoven had taught me to cleave to broad outlines and to intense expression; and the old Italian opera, with its divisions and arias, repelled me.

At last I found an opportunity to have "Rienzi" produced at Dresden. The performance was a success. I had now a name; but I had not yet the means of sustaining my artistic purpose. The friends I had made rallied round me, however, and I began to see more hopes.

It was in this time that I perceived more clearly the idea of a union of poetry and music, which should be the true music-drama. I thought that the words ought to be part of the music, and not a reason for its interruptions. The long-established forms in use in the Italian school were a contradiction to the true dramatic meaning of music, and I resolved henceforward to attempt to work out a new form.

There existed then — as now — a strong party of the adherents of the bel-canto in Germany, and they could not at once be convinced. But I found among my friends men who were ready to believe in me and my novelties.

My third symphony? or my first great work, "Der fliegende Holländer" was the first realization of my ideas, and it was followed by "Tannhäuser" and "Lohengrin." These, however, met with diversified fortunes. "Tannhäuser" was scandalized by conservatism; "Lohengrin" was better received. I had meanwhile written much else. I had a passionate devotion to the theatre, and I would fain have changed the whole plan of public Spanish or German representation. It was my desire to make of it a community of poetic music, expressed by words and expression of persons.

The result of these labors was long deferred. I had abroad a number of bitter days. At last in the year 1849 came the revolution, and with it my share of misfortune and exile. I took part, to a slight degree, in the political movements of the time; and the failure of the insurrection compelled me to fly. I sought refuge outside of Germany. For two years I was an exile, living in Switzerland and later in Paris, sometimes in absolute poverty.

It was during this life of wandering that I wrote much of my matured work. I jotted down ideas for the "Ring of the Nibelungen," and other dramas, and I shaped the plan which afterwards became the great cycle.

In the year 1864 I was called to Weimar, and Liszt gave me his good will. Later, in 1865, King Ludwig of Bavaria invited me to settle in Munich, where he gave me protection and help. To his generosity and sympathy I owe the possibility of making the execution of my greatest ideas. Under his favor I was enabled to establish the necessary organization, and to complete much which I had imagined.

The result of this protected life was the composition of "Tristan und Isolde," "Die Meistersinger," and the completion of the "Ring." In time I saw my works performed in a theater built on the plan I wished. In 1876 the festival in Bayreuth took place; there, overtly, I had the absolute execution of my dramas. The people came from all lands; and the performance was such as I had conceived. I had triumphed, not by yielding to the old rules, but by adhering to the strictly dramatic relation of music and poetry.

It would be presumptuous to set forth here what was the result of all this work upon art. I will only say that I have suffered much for my convictions; I resisted the current taste, and I endured many revilings and persecutions. And yet, in the end, the new form prevailed.

I will not speak here at length of my private life; it is enough to say that there were domestic sorrows and misunderstandings, and that I suffered from the enmities of many men who, for their own reasons, did not desire my success. But I have been recompensed by the satisfaction of seeing my art realized, and by the affection of friends who aided me in my hard hours.

There remain to me now only the recollection of years of labor, and the hope that what I have set forth will endure, and be of use to those who come after me. I have tried to unite the dramatic power of poetry with the spiritual influence of music. If I have succeeded in any measure, it is because I have believed that art must be absolute and single in aim.

The path has been difficult; the struggles have been many; and yet the end has justified the means. I would advise young composers to study thoroughly the sources of national feeling; to seek the union of poetry and music; to free themselves from the servitude of forms; and above all, to work with patience and with an infinite tenderness for the truth of expression.

It is with deep emotion that I end this sketch. I have lived in tempest and in sunshine. I have fought for my ideals. If the future judge me harshly, yet I shall be consoled to have had the courage to pursue my convictions.

(Continued.)

[There is a short decorative horizontal rule centered under this column.]

INSTRUCTIVE HINTS.

BY ROBERT GOLDBECK.

The more rapid the execution upon the piano, the more important the fingering. In slow passages greater diversity of fingering is possible and greater license allowable — in fast passages only one fingering generally is the best. Care and ingenuity should be exercised to discover it, rather than practise for days and months against hope the combinations of fingerings that may have a logic of their own, but are too difficult. Players will sometimes practise very difficult passages for years without conquering them, simply because it does not occur to them to improve the fingering. The passage in the "Fantasie-Improvisation" in C sharp, by Chopin, the ad lib measures, is very difficult and unsafe when executed with the thumb from the black keys, while it is not hard and quite safe when the thumb is taken on C sharp, passing over to B sharp with the 2d. With the fingering first alluded to, this run will remain a source of anxiety to the player even after years of the most thorough practice, while with the right fingering, however, a dozen occasional slow repetitions will suffice to keep it fluent and instead of dreading it, the player will desire to perform it. Pupils who read very slowly at first, cannot see the need of a particular fingering.

Careless players often strike octaves in the left hand, wherever single notes are more correct. These single notes are purposely written by the author to obtain a bell-like round, and a more delicate foundation tone for the harmonic accompaniment, and the coarse, octaval tone, is out of place in many cases. Franz Liszt has a particular dislike for this habit. Another and worse practice is the striking of other notes with an octave in the left, a handful of notes as it were, resembling a grunt.

It must be remembered that this was written in 1840. — Trans.

[At bottom left of page a small footnote or note indicates page continuation; small ornament near bottom margin.]

[Description of non-textual elements:]
The page is a full newspaper-style sheet with three columns of dense type under the masthead "THE ETUDE." At the top left is the page number "106." A thin ornamental rule separates sections. There are small decorative ornaments used as separators (simple typographic fleuron or star-like printer's ornaments). No photographic images or illustrations are present; the page consists entirely of printed text with these typographic flourishes and column rules.
I can do this, but the image is fairly small and much of the fine print is hard to read. I can either:
- Transcribe the large, clear headings and the central article fairly accurately from this image, or
- Do a complete, precise line-by-line transcription if you can provide a higher-resolution or zoomed crop (especially for the left and lower columns which contain many small type listings).

Tell me which you prefer, or upload a higher-resolution/zoomed image (or multiple crops of the left column, lower-left, and lower-right) and I will transcribe everything exactly.

Description of non-textual elements visible now:
- A decorative masthead at the top center reading THE ETUDE with ornamental spacing; the page number 107 appears at the top right.
- At the top-left is a box-like heading titled SELECT LIST OF PUBLICATIONS FROM THE CATALOGUE OF WM. ROHLFING & SONS, MILWAUKEE—laid out as an advertisement list with multiple small type listings and price columns (the small type is difficult to read at this resolution).
- The page is arranged in three columns of dense text separated by narrow gutters.
- There are no photographs; the only non-textual ornamentation are small typographic rules/lines and decorative typography in headings and the masthead.
108

THE ETUDE.

Music
Teachers

are especially invited to examine the following-named choice selections from our recent publications, which are carefully edited and revised by competent musicians before being printed. Ask your music dealer to send them for selection. If he cannot or will not furnish, send direct to the publishers.

VOCAL.

I Love a Maid, song............Scheller 40
Will You Be True?..................Gounod 40
Two Little Tears..................Bertha 50
The Old Church Bell..............Smith 50
Round and Around the Gun, By My Eyes............B. S. Marsh 50
A Lass, A Lass (Mendelssohn).....Longfellow 50
A Rose for You..........................Pfeiffer 50
When in Our Springtime (Schubert)........Schubert 50
The Old Gray Mare (Ballad)............Peters 40
The Good Little Girl (Children)........Fischer 40
I Know a Bank (Soprano).............B. Godard 40
My Dream of Love (West End).......Hughes 40
My Heart Hath Its Own Song..........Morace 40
Love and Hate (Byrd)...............Morrell 40
The Night Stars (Song).............Anchor 40
Because I Love You (A Duet)........Hardy 40
The House of My Father (Song)......Mendelsohn 40
Nobody Knows but the Maid in the Moon......Smith 40
Words Worth Record (Song)..........Bach 40
Tuck and Sniffle Blues (Curio)........Stover 40
Bright and Shadowy...............Pfeiffer 40
Little Night Song (Trio)..........Smith 40
A Little Flower (Child's Song)....Vance 40
I Love Thee, O My Name............Kendall 40
Darling Sweet, Good-by...........Hills 40
She Took a Wreath.................Smith 40
Violin and a Thousand Eyes.......Lawrence 40

PIANO SOLOS.

Occidentals Club, Caprice........Willoughby 40
Adieu Schubert, Mazurka de Salon......Koehler 75
Old King William, Polka de Salon......Koehler 75
Grand Valse..............Archer 50
Caroluna, Schottische............Archer 50
The Shepherd's Farewell........Lemerre 40
The Swimmer's Gallop...........Renoir 40
Imperial March (Waltz)............Archer 75
Valse Caprice, March..............Stymuss 50
Midnight in the Snow, Schottische.....Becker 40
Vineyard Polka Mazurka............Hammond 40
In Quiet Love, Gavotte, Medley Waltzes......Rough 75
Queen of My Soul, Waltzes..........Harben 40
Fusilana, Serenade ..................Delacroix 50
Witchcraft, Waltz and Antiphon......McFadden 40
Pesto Duo (Grand Marche)..........Seitz 75
Queen of the Dance (Valse Rondeau)...Brown 75
No. 1, Beast in the Quiver (Polka).....Brenot 40
No. 2 (Gavotte) ....................Theophile 50
No. 3 (Napolis) ..................Galli 40
Revel (Marche).....................Arthur 40
Bellero and Marseillaise...........Conner 40
For You and Me....................Yorke 40
Sweet and Tender (Valse)...........Maynard 40
A Thousand and One Nights (Nocturne)....McAlister 50
Adoration, Mazurka...............McAbee 40
Classic Waltz, Schottische........Jenkins 40
California Polka.................Smith 40
Love's Lure (Waltz)...............Mansfield 40
UNIO THE LAW (Polka)...........Whittaker 40

A full supply of music for Banjo, Mandolin, and Guitar, including the publications of all the principal music publishers in the United States.

FOUR-HAND MUSIC.
SIX-HAND MUSIC.
EIGHT-HAND MUSIC.

Two Pianos—Twelve Hands.

BOOKS.

Molling's New Progressive Method for the Piano. By Theo. Molloing.........$1.50
Preludes, Studies and other Exercises for the Pianoforte. By H. B. Smith........$1.00
A New and Complete Guitar Method. By A. H. Brown......................$1.00
The New Violin Method. By L. Schumann.......................$1.50
A Treatise on Harmony. By Dr. H. A. P. Becker....................$2.50
The Thorough School of Music. Compiled by Geo. H. Martin.............$2.00
The Advocate's Manual of Voice (Revised). By Prof. H. Becker.........$1.50

Remember, we keep constantly on hand a full stock of Peters' Editions, Leistner Editions, Boosey Editions, all kinds of similar cheap editions. Also a full line of Music Paper and Blank Music Books. Our stock is most complete in every particular.

JOHN F. ELLIS & CO.,
937 PENNSYLVANIA AVE., N.W., WASHINGTON, D. C.

If you want anything in the music line, send your order to us, and you will be sure to get it.

PHILADELPHIA SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL.

Much interest has been manifested in this project. The plans for the school have been completed and circulars are ready for distribution. There will now be an opportunity for first-class advantages in music at a minimum rate of expense. In another part of this issue will be found an advertisement giving general information, but there are many details which can only be set forth in a circular. The prospects are for a large attendance and arrangements are made for an unlimited number. The University of Pennsylvania is an ideal place for just such a school. It is centrally located, has many well ventilated class rooms and lecture hall, a library which is unsurpassed, and which will be open day and evening. The grounds contain 85 acres and are situated in the coolest part of the city.

It is the aim of the movement to make every one who attends, a better teacher, singer, player, or theorist. While the system of Technic, as founded by Dr. Mason, will receive much attention, all other departments will be on a par. The school will afford the best possible advantages for general Musical Culture, not alone for teachers but also for students at every stage of progress. The following are some of the departments of study which will receive attention: Harmony, Elementary and Advanced, Counterpoint, Musical Form, The Art of Teaching, Sight Singing, Tonic Sol Fa, Questions and Answers, Practice Clarion and Technicon, Chorus Class, and Organ and Violin.

A special feature will be made of Lectures and Recitals. Beside the faculty, quite a number of outside talent have been engaged, among them R. E. Krehbiel, Rev. E. E. Ayres, Chas. H. Jarvis, J. Protheroe, and Dr. H. G. Hanchett. Mr. Matthias will give daily lectures on "How to Understand Music." Dr. Clarke will give a series of illustrated lectures on "Old Songs, Madrigals and Motettes." The following are the subjects of some of the lectures:—

How to Listen to Music.
Folk Song in America.
The Story of German Music.
History of Dancing.
The Development of Musical Form and its Theories.
Rhythm and the Beat.
How to Listen to an Orchestra.
Schumann: His Life and Works.
Some Principles of Art and Interpretation.
History of Expression and its Relation to Poetry, Painting and Music. Development, Tendencies.
Principles of Expression and their Application to General Art Interpretation.
Rhythm of Nature.
Psychology of the Musical Senses.
Analogies of Tone and Color.

Students of the Music School will be admitted to all the classes of the University Extension Summer Meeting for an additional charge of $5.00. This school is held in the same building, and instruction will be given by eminent specialists in five departments. The classes will include: I. Pedagogy; II. History and Civics; IV. Science of Education; V. Mathematics. Among the lecturers are Dr. E. Benjamin Andrews, President of Brown University; Rev. Edward Everett Hale, D. D., Boston, author of "The Man without a Country," &c.; Professor Arthur T. Hadley, Yale University; Prof. John Bach McMaster, University of Pennsylvania; Dr. Nathan C. Schaeffer, Superintendent of Public Instruction in Pennsylvania; Professor E. R. A. Seligman, of Columbia College; Professor Frank McMurray, of the University of Illinois, etc., etc. In all over fifty lecturers, representing fifteen leading Colleges and Universities.

Send for full information to THE ETUDE Office. There are some points that all who contemplate attending will wish to know. We give here a few of them:—

A large list of boarding places will be sent on application.

We would like to know in advance, the number that will attend, so that necessary arrangements can be made.

The Saturday before [June 30] the opening will be the day to register, assign teachers, and arrange classes. Positively no assignment to any special teacher before that date.

Books and sheet music will be sold at the regular discounts allowed to teachers.

A season of first-class operatic performances will be in progress during the time of the Summer School.

Ample provision is made for Piano Practice, for which the charges will be from 10 to 15 cents per hour.

There will be a lecture by Richard G. Gilder, Editor of Century Magazine, on "Lincoln," Saturday Evening, July 7th, to which all will have free admission.

The school will open promptly with all the classes on Monday, July 2, and it is highly important that all should be registered before that time.

By engaging board from Saturday, June 30, it will make four weeks complete to the date of the close of the school.

MENTAL PRACTICE.

BY M. M. JONES.

Although the writers of The Etude are constantly discussing almost every possible class and sort of piano pupils, very helpfully prescribing for their musical ailments, etc., still there seems to be one class for the special help or encouragement of whom very little is said. In fact, very much that is written tends to discouragement. I have in mind those who have a real talent and love for music, and who have plenty of "pluck" and "stick-to-it-tiveness," with possibly an inordinate ambition, but who are not physically strong enough to practice at the piano the required number of hours. It is to such that I wish to make a suggestion.

Of course it is understood that they will make every effort during the few they can practice, not, think as well as play, etc., but that the thought occurs if the pupils who are physically feeble cannot spend the piano might be very profitably utilized, and that, too, in the way of practice?

It most certainly can be, and what I would say to such pupils is, when you cannot use your fingers, substitute your brains. Now for the way in which to do it. Each day before practicing at the piano, take some of the time you would practice if you could, and go through your entire lesson (excepting the bare mechanical exercises) mentally. Think it through, not only for the notes, but the time, the accenting, fingering, and finally, even the phrasing and expression as it becomes more and more familiar. Not only think it all, but feel it.

Work very carefully and slowly, especially at first, giving the parts requiring the most practice, special and repeated attention.

This sort of practice will be found to be not only possible, but of great assistance to slow readers. In my own experience it has also proved to be a great help to a pupil just before taking a lesson, when the same amount of practice at the piano would have caused too much fatigue.

Some who read this may say it is nothing more or less than mental reading; but I beg to make a distinction. It is more than that; for just so far as it is possible, it is to be made to take the place of the fingers, and is to be applied to each lesson as a part of its daily practice. This point I would emphasize, that notwithstanding it is entirely mental work; it is itself practice, and not mere reading.

LONDON COLLEGE OF MUSIC.

An abridgment of a paper read at the London College of Music, and published in that journal, will be found in the circular which accompanies this number of The Etude. The establishment has been in operation a number of years, and has proved of great assistance to hundreds of English and American students, securing to them examinations and degrees. The faculty is composed of eminent masters in the various branches, and the institution is well worthy the attention of American musicians.

[There are decorative flourishes and small musical note graphics near the Music Teachers heading.]

(Note: The original page includes many small items of musical listings, prices and names in the left column under Vocal and Piano Solos and Books, and in the center and right columns lengthy articles about the Philadelphia Summer Music School and Mental Practice, as transcribed above.)
No 1653.
Petite Barcarolle.
IMPROMPTU.
1
K. HENSANT.
Moderato.
dolce.
cresco.
p
rit.
p
f
p

Copyright 1894 by Theo. Presser.

Description of non-textual content:
Single-page printed piano sheet music (grand staff) occupying the page. Treble and bass staves with clefs, a key signature of two flats (B♭, E♭), and a compound meter (6/8) at the beginning. The page contains musical notation: notes, rests, beams, triplet markings (small "3" numbers over groups), finger numbers over notes, slurs and phrase markings, dynamic markings (p, f), hairpins, and articulation marks. Several systems (lines) of music are spaced top to bottom. The page shows small printer's blemishes, ink smudges and light stains around edges and a few pen/hand-drawn marks near the margins.
Extracted text (as it appears on the page):

2

f
p

*
Ped.
*
Ped.
*
Ped.
*
pp

4 5 2

8 (with a long dashed/dotted octave line above a system)

rit.
a. tempo.

*
Ped.
*
Ped.
*
Ped.

3 (triplet markings repeated above groups of notes throughout the page)

8 (another ottava marking with dashed line)

p

Petite Barc. 3

Description of non-textual content:

- A full page of engraved piano sheet music (grand staff: treble and bass clefs) with five main systems of notation running vertically down the page.
- Repeated musical symbols include notes, rests, slurs, triplet brackets marked with the numeral 3, staccato/dot articulations, dynamic markings (f, p, pp), ottava markings indicated by the numeral 8 with dashed/octave lines, and pedal indications accompanied by asterisk-style release marks.
- Finger numbers appear near some notes (e.g., a small grouping of "4 5 2" above a chord).
- The left edge shows a dark binding/margin; the page has age-related specks, smudges and a few pencil/pen scribbles near the lower right quadrant.
- The engraving includes small decorative staff-connecting braces and hairline measure separators; there are several asterisk symbols (*) printed beneath measures that correspond with pedal markings.
3

cresc.
p
rit.

a tempo

ff grandioso

p

p
f

pp

p
P perdendosi.
PP
f

Ped. (appears repeatedly under the staves, often followed by an asterisk *)

* (asterisk pedal-release symbols appear repeatedly after Ped.)

Petite Bare. 3

Description of non-textual content:
A black-and-white scanned page of piano sheet music (grand staff) with five systems of music. Each system has treble and bass staves with clefs, staff lines, many notes, beams, triplet brackets marked "3", slurs and phrase marks spanning measures, dynamic markings (crescendo hairpins, accents), arpeggiated runs and large rolled/arched slur over a long right-hand passage, pedal markings ("Ped." and asterisk release signs) beneath many measures, and bar lines. The page shows some ink smudges, small speckles and light damage near the margins. The overall layout is a printed musical score, classical piano notation.
Nº 1675

March of the dwarfs.
TROLDTOG.

Allegro moderato.                                   E.GRIEG,Op.54,No.3.

(pp)                                             (staccato.)

1 2 3 4   5

pp
staccato.

sempre:pp
staccato.

una corda.
staccato.         tre corde.
cresc. poco

a poco

molto.  cresc.

ff

Copyright 1894 by Theo Presser

Description of non-textual content:
The image is a full-page engraving of piano sheet music. It contains multiple grand staves (treble and bass clefs) with standard musical notation: key and time signatures, staffs, bar lines, notes (single notes, chords, and many rapid arpeggiated runs), slurs, staccato dots, accents, fingerings (small numbers above and below notes), dynamic markings (pp, ff, cresc., sempre, etc.), pedal indications (una corda, tre corde), and small measure numbers. The top center displays the title and subtitle; the composer and opus are printed at the top right. The page edges show light aging and small ink spots and smudges; there is a dark binding margin along the left side.
5

8

dim. poco a poco.

p

dim.

una corda.

pp.

March of the dwarfs.

(Various small finger numbers appear throughout the score, e.g. repeated 5 and 4 above the upper-voice chords and fingerings 1 2 3 4 5 beneath some bass notes.)

Description of non-textual content:
A single page of piano sheet music (grand staff) containing multiple systems of treble and bass staves. The music shows arpeggiated accompaniment figures in the left hand and flowing, ornamented right-hand figurations, with many slurs, staccato/tenuto accents (>) and phrasing marks. There are dynamic markings and expressive directions as transcribed above, an ottava marking (8) with a dashed line spanning an upper staff passage, numerous small finger numbers printed above and below notes, and a couple of small handwritten marks and smudges on the page. The page appears aged with stray spots and scanning artifacts along the margins.
6

p cantabile.

Ped.
Ped.
Ped.

March of the dwarfs. 6

Description of non-textual content:
A single aged sheet-music page (slightly foxed and with darkened margins) showing piano notation. There are five systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs joined by braces), with many notes, slurs, phrase markings, finger-number annotations (small numerals near many notes), and dynamic markings (p and similar). Arpeggiated figures and tuplet/bracket markings are present; several long slurs connect phrases across measures. Pedal indications ("Ped." printed under the staves) appear beneath multiple systems. The top-left corner shows the page number "6" and the bottom-left contains the piece title line "March of the dwarfs. 6". The page has small stray ink specks and a few handwritten-looking pen marks near the bottom.
Extracted text:
7
March of the dwarfs. 6

Description of the non-textual content:
- A full page of printed piano sheet music (five systems/rows of grand staves). Each system shows a treble clef staff above a bass clef staff joined by a brace at the left.
- Key signature of two sharps (F# and C#) throughout, indicating D major / B minor family.
- Numerous musical notations including: notes and chords in both hands, slurs and phrase markings spanning measures, staccato dots, accent marks, hairpin dynamics (crescendo/decrescendo), dynamic markings such as p (piano), and pedal markings under some systems (Ped. and release marks).
- Many small finger-number annotations (digits 1–5) printed above and below notes throughout the page.
- Arpeggiated figurations and rolled chords shown with bracketed slurs and groupings; some measures include rapid broken-chord passages and small grace-note style figures.
- Several editorial or performance markings (small printed numbers and tiny symbols) adjacent to some notes.
- The page shows signs of age: light speckling, smudges and small dark spots, a vertical dark border along the left edge, and a few hand-drawn pencil/pen marks or scratches in the lower margin.
8

pp
staccato.

sempre ppp
staccato.

una corda.
staccato. cresc. poco
tre corde.

a poco
molto. cresc.

ff

March of the dwarfs.

Description of non-textual images:
- The page is a sheet-music score consisting of six systems of grand staves (treble and bass clefs paired) with standard musical notation.
- Each system contains multiple measures filled with notes, chords, arpeggiated figures, beams, stems, rests, slurs, staccato dots, accent marks ( > ), and dynamic markings placed near the staffs.
- Clefs: treble and bass clefs appear at the start of each staff pair.
- Key signature and accidentals: numerous sharps and flats appear throughout individual notes and chords.
- Articulations: many staccato dots, slurs connecting groups of notes, and accent marks over/under phrases.
- Pedal and expressive markings: phrases include una corda and tre corde indications, crescendo markings, and dynamic levels (pp, ppp, ff, etc.).
- The page has a printed page number “8” at the top left and some small stray ink marks and blemishes around the margins; a curved pen/ink scribble appears near the lower center of the page.
Extracted text:
9
dim. poco a poco
p
dim
una corda.
pp
5 1 3 2
5 2
ff
March of the dwarfs.6

Description of non-textual images:
- A single printed music score page (page number 9 at top right) containing multiple grand-staff systems (treble and bass clefs) for piano. The page shows dense notation: groups of beamed notes, arpeggiated figurations, repeated chord patterns, and runs across both hands.
- Numerous musical articulations and dynamics are visible throughout: accent marks ( > ), slurs, staccato dots, crescendo/decrescendo hairpins, and fingerings (small numbers adjacent to notes).
- Dynamic markings visible on the staves include p, pp, ff and several instances of dim. (diminuendo) and the instruction "una corda." The instruction "dim. poco a poco" appears in the upper middle of the page.
- The notation includes block chords in the left hand, flowing arpeggiated broken-chord figures in the right hand, and transitional passages of fast semiquaver/32nd-note groups.
- The page background shows aged paper texture, darkened borders, small ink spots and smudges, and a pen or pencil scribble/drawn curve near the bottom-right margin. The left margin has a darker vertical strip (scanned book gutter).
10
No 1674

GOOD NIGHT.
Song without words.

Moderato.                                  FRANZ BENDEL.

p

Con Pedale.

poco ritard.          a tempo.

Copyright 1894 by Theo Presser.

Description of non-textual image:
A single printed page of piano sheet music. The page shows a title area at top and four systems of grand-staff music (each system with treble and bass staves connected by a brace at the left). The notation includes clefs, key signature, time signature, many chords, broken-chord accompaniment patterns, slurs, staccato and accent markings, dynamic markings (p), fingerings (small numbers), and pedaling indications. There are repeat-like grouped chord figures and ornamental stems; the layout has typical barlines and measure groupings. The left margin of the page has a dark vertical strip (scanned binding area). The page shows some light blemishes and small smudges/ink marks.
11

poco riten
a tempo
pp
p
cres.
dimin.
pp

Song without words. 2 Good Night

Description of non-textual content:
A full-page scan of a piano score (page 11) showing five systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs). Each system contains many notes, chords, slurs, ties, rests, articulation marks, and small finger-number indicia (1, 2, 3, 4, 5) printed above and below many notes. There are dynamic markings and expressive abbreviations (listed above) placed above or between the staves. The page has minor blemishes and smudges, and a few stray pen or pencil marks and curved ink lines near the lower right margin. The overall page is slightly worn but the musical engraving is clear and legible.
12
No 1667

Dedicated to Geo. Bastert.

Girard Gavotte.

Tempo di Gavotte.                                                  CHARLES F. FONDEY.

cresc. poco a poco
p
mf
p
p
mf
p
mf    p
cresce
f

Copyright 1894 by Theo. Presser.

Description of non-textual content:
The image is a single scanned page of vintage sheet music for piano. It contains a large title area at the top and four systems of piano notation (grand staves with treble and bass clefs) occupying the page. The music shows standard notation elements: notes, rests, slurs, dynamic markings (p, mf, f, cresc./cresce.), pedal and articulation marks, and small editorial letters/accents above some chords. The page shows signs of age and scanning artifacts: light speckling, smudges, a thin dark border along the right edge, and a few pencil or ink scribbles/curved marks near the bottom. The overall layout is centered with generous margins.
Extracted text (as it appears on the page)

13
mf
dim.
p
poco. rit.
f
a tempo
dim.
poco rit.
1
2.
p
Girard Gavotte. 5

Description of non-textual content

The image is a scanned page of a piece of piano sheet music. It shows the grand-staff (treble and bass clefs) in multiple systems (five systems of two staves each) filled with musical notation: clefs, key/time signatures, staff lines, many beamed and single notes, chords, slurs, ties, rests, arpeggio-like broken-chord patterns in the left hand, and repeat/ending markings (first- and second-ending brackets above measures near the bottom). Dynamic markings (hairpins, crescendos/decrescendos) and articulation markings (staccato dots, accent marks) are present throughout. The page has printer/scanner artifacts (spots, small ink smudges) and a darkened border from the scan. There are small editorial or performance markings (numbers above measures for endings, and a small parenthetical marking above the final bars). The printed page number "13" appears at the top right. The title or footer text "Girard Gavotte. 5" appears at the lower left.
14.

mf
mf
cresc.
f
mf
f
dim..
p
poco rit.
Girard Gavotte. 5

Description of non-textual content:
A full-page scanned sheet of piano music (two staves per system: treble and bass clefs) with five systems of measures. The page shows standard musical notation: notes, beams, rests, slurs, staccato/dynamics markings, and vertical bar lines. Left-hand accompaniment consists largely of broken/arpeggiated bass figures; the right hand carries the melodic line. There are small printing imperfections, smudges and a dark right-hand margin from the scan, and a faint hand-drawn pencil mark or scribble in the upper right corner. A small decorative star-like mark appears near the bottom center of the page.
15

p dolce.

cresc.

f

1
2
3

p

mf

mf
p

Girard Gavotte. 5

Description of non-textual content:
A scanned page of piano sheet music (grand staff) with five systems of treble and bass staves containing musical notation: clefs, key-and-time signatures (not clearly visible), many notes and chords, slurs, staccatos, accents, tuplets (a triplet marked “3”), fingerings (small digits near notes), dynamic markings (p, mf, f, cresc.), and a pair of bracketed first- and second-ending markings above a bar labeled “1” and “2.” The page shows printed page number “15” at the top right, small printer’s credit or title “Girard Gavotte. 5” at the lower left, and several pencil or ink scribbles and smudges in the margins. The sheet has a worn, slightly speckled background from scanning.
16

cresc.

f

mf

mf

dim...

p

poco rit.

f

P più lento.

p

pp

Girard Gavotte. 5

Description of non-textual image content:
A scanned page of piano sheet music (grand staves) printed on aged paper. The page contains five systems of two-stave (treble and bass) notation with clefs, time/staff lines, many beamed and single notes, chords, slurs, ties, hairpin dynamics, and numerous accidentals (sharps and flats). Left-hand accompaniment often shows broken/arched arpeggiated figures; right-hand carries the melody with frequent ornamented passages. Dynamic markings and expressive markings are placed above and below the staves (as transcribed). There are barlines dividing measures; the final system ends with a long tied chord. The page number "16" appears at the upper left. The lower-left corner bears the small printed footer "Girard Gavotte. 5". The page has visible signs of wear and light speckling from scanning, with a dark margin along the left edge and a stray pen/ink mark near the bottom right.
I can transcribe this page, but much of the body text is quite small and not fully legible at the current resolution. Below I give a full, careful transcription of the large-print material and advertisements that are legible, and a clear description of the non-textual images. If you want the smaller, densely printed newspaper columns fully transcribed I can do that if you can provide a higher-resolution crop or allow me to zoom on specific columns — tell me which column(s) to focus on and I will extract the rest verbatim.

Legible text (large headings, ads and prominent items)

THE ETUDE. 109

New Works in Press.

SPECIAL OFFER.

The Embellishments of Music.
By LOUIS ARTHUR RUSSELL.
A Work for Pianoforte Players, Singers, and all Musicians. 150 Pages, Octavo Size.

Selected Studies from Concone.
By CALVIN E. GADY.
The Studies are somewhat easier than Heller’s, and similar in style.

Graded Course of Pianoforte Studies.
GRADE IX and X.
BY W. S. B. MATTHEWS.
This Course is giving the greatest satisfaction to all who are using it.

We will send these four works, when issued, postage paid, to anyone who will send one dollar in advance of publication. These works will all retail at $1.00 each. The offer will only be open for this month.

ADDRESS PUBLISHER,
THEO. PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

GENUINE METRONOMES.

We have just received a new importation of the finest Maelzel Metronomes direct from France.

Without Bell, - Price $3.00.
With " " - 4.50.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

[Round emblem/logo]
RELIABLE ESTAB. 1850
CARPENTER ORGANS
OVER 20,000 SOLD
SEND FOR CATALOGUE & PRICES
E.P. CARPENTER & CO., BRATTLEBORO, VT

A New and Original Publication.

EIGHT FUGUES.
By JOHANN SEBASTIAN BACH.
With Analytical Expositions in COLORS and Appendices Harmonic Schemes
By BERNHARDT BOHMEILAN [Note: name is not fully legible; please provide a higher-resolution crop if exact spelling is required]

A highly approved edition, and recommended by the following prominent artists:
[Several names follow in smaller type — not fully legible at this resolution]

THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

Center-top heading:
CONCERT PROGRAMS.

[Under this heading are many recital and program listings, beginning with:]
Miss Grace Martin, Graduate in Music, Virginia College for Young Ladies, Roanoke, Va.
(a) Invention No. 1, in C; (b) Gavotte in D Minor, Bach; Sonata, Op. 27, No. 2; (a) Nocturne, Op. 9, No. 2; Mazourka (?), (b) Nocturne, Op. 15, No. 2, etc.
[This column contains many individual program items and lists of short works and composers; the small type prevents a fully reliable word-for-word transcription from this image.]

Right-top heading:
NEW PUBLICATIONS.

LESSONS IN AUDITION.
By HELEN M. SPARMANN. JOHN CHURCH CO., Cincinnati, O.
[Following is a review-style paragraph praising the book and discussing its approach to ear training; the paragraph is small and only partially legible in the image.]

ANALYTICAL HARMONY.
By A. J. GOODRICH. JOHN CHURCH CO., Cincinnati, O.
[Another review/notice follows; small type and dense paragraphs are not fully legible at this resolution.]

Other items in these columns include:
- Multiple concert program entries (recitals by students and teachers, lists of movements and pieces)
- Short notices and reviews of newly published music and instructional books
- A number of small advertisements and publisher credits
- References to composers, works, and teachers (many proper names and titles in small type)

Non-textual images — descriptions

- Ornamental typographic flourish under the "The Embellishments of Music" title: a short decorative line with stylized leaf/scroll elements, used as a divider.
- Small illustrative vignette near the metronome ad (not fully clear): looks like a simple line engraving of a metronome or small decorative ornament.
- Carpenter Organs logo: circular/oval emblem containing the word "RELIABLE" and "ESTAB. 1850" arched at the top and "CARPENTER ORGANS" in larger type across the center. Below the emblem is a small silhouette or stylized depiction of an organ (pipes visible) and the text "OVER 20,000 SOLD." The lower part of the ad block includes E.P. CARPENTER & CO., BRATTLEBORO, VT. The emblem is ornate, with a border and the organ graphic is small but clearly suggests organ pipes and a console.
- Various small decorative rules and lines between columns and ads, as is typical in periodicals of this era.

What I need to finish an exact, complete transcription
- A higher-resolution crop of the center and right columns (the dense concert programs and new publication reviews), or
- Permission to zoom in on specific numbered sections or columns (e.g., left column, center column, right column), or
- Separate images for each column at higher resolution.

If you provide a clearer crop or tell me which column(s) you want transcribed first, I will produce a complete, verbatim transcription of every line on the page.
110                                                                 THE ETUDE.

[At upper left: a woodcut trademark showing a seated cherubic figure holding a lyre, surrounded by ornamental scrollwork and a small banner under it. To the right of the illustration the large type heading reads BREITKOPF & HÄRTEL, with smaller text beneath.]

BREITKOPF & HÄRTEL,
Music and Musical Instruments,
39 East 19th Street, New York

ELEMENTARY SCALE AND CHORD STUDIES
FOR THE
VIOLIN.
By G. D'ANNUFFREHT. 43 Pages. 4to. $2.
Especially designed for the use of young students, enabling them to gain a clear and accurate knowledge of all the major and minor scales, keys,
and chords. It may be used in conjunction with any method.

Breitkopf & Härtel's VIOLINS.
(Made in our New York workshops
by Herm. Glaesel.)
The Highest Grade Violins in the market. $100, $150.

Theory of the New Keyboard.
By WINKLER & KEELER. 50 cts.
Gives in a comprehensive, concise form, Scales and
Chords on the Janko Keyboard.

Students' Violins.
$5 to $25. Style 231, Maggini Model, strong,
sonorous tone. Teacher's price $10.

School of Modern Piano Virtuosity.
By ROSENTHAL & SCHYTTE. Complete, $5.00
3 Books, $2 each.
Technical Studies for the highest degree of development.

American Mandolins.
THE SPRING LAKE, NO. 102 Walnut, American
Machines. Prof. Price $7.50.

Melodic Studies of Medium Difficulty.
By HERMAN MOHR, Op. 66.
3 Books, 60 cts. each.
9 Studies of much value. "Musikzeitung."

American Guitars.
No. 74, Mahogany, $10. No. 76, Rosewood,
$12.50. Our own make.

Musical Penmanship.
By E. BRESLAUER-GANS. 75 cts.
Edition of the New England Conservatory of Music,
Boston. Practical exercises for music writing.

Artists' Violins.
$20 to $100.
Made after the best models of the old masters. They
possess the sympathetic, sonorous tone of
the originals.

Jadassohn, Manual of Harmony.
Translated by PAUL TOREK and H. R. PASMORE.
258 Pages. Cloth, $2.50. Prof. Price $1.50.

Imported Mandolins.
THE JUNIATA. Clean and sweet tone. No. 25,
Maple and Rosewood, Prof. Price $10.

Please Write for Catalogues of Sheet Music, Music
Books, and Instruments.

BREITKOPF & HÄRTEL,
NEW YORK.

MUSICAL NOTES.
BY E. E. AYRES.

SCHUMANN, in speaking of some of Heller's music,
says that "his intellectual talent manifests itself in the
Scherzo." He considers Heller's Scherzo, opus 24,
especially happy; "it is full of humor and artistic in form.
It is, we feel ourselves, from the beginning to the end of
the piece, in the presence of an extremely lively yet
amiable kind of a man who, while he knows how to jest
and amuse, also knows how to introduce a profound
idea." He says that this Scherzo is refined and intel-
lectual enough to prevent any dissatisfaction on our part,
nevertheless he claims that Heller's music cannot be-
come popular, and now mark his reason: "To under-
stand, to admire it, more is necessary than mere nature,
or even the ordinary musician's cultivation. More re-
sources from this sportive humor than mere musical
experience."

"He who understands Shakespeare and Jean Paul will
compose quite differently from the man who draws his
music from the depths of his own wisdom and Marpurg,
etc., alone. He who lives in the rush of a varied existence
will suppose possible an ideal mastery far removed from
that of which the contour of some quiet town dreams, and
from those who in other respects talent and serious
studies are equal. We discover a more than merely
musical cultivation and experience in the compositions
of this young artist. Not that we mean to assert the
presence of anything non-existent in them, but certainly
there are not works that every one is capable of under-
standing."

This is quite a commentary on the importance of broad
and general culture in the musical student. Surely it is
not ordinarily supposed among students of music and
professors thereof that Heller is too profound for the
ordinary understanding, and yet Schumann, one of our
most intellectual, and surely one of the most musical
spirits, declares Shakespeare and Jean Paul essential
even to the understanding of Heller.

* * *

Another illustration of the same thought may be
drawn from the sketch of Mendelssohn as given in Grove's
dictionary, volume 2, page 282. He says, "Antigone
was given on September the 19th, in the Neue Palais at
Potsdam, and the Midsummer Night's Dream at the same
place after eleven rehearsals on October the 14th, and
on the 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st at the King's Theatre
in Berlin. The music met with enthusiastic applause
each time, but the play (Antigone) was for a long time a
subject of wonder to the Berliners. Some disputed
whether Tieck or Shakespeare was the author; others
believed that Shakespeare had translated it from German
into English. Some in that refined atmosphere, were
shocked by the scene with the clowns, and annoyed that
the king should have patronized so low a piece, and a very
distinguished personage expressed to Mendelssohn him-
self his regret that such comedy music should have been
used on so poor a play; a little scene which he was very
fond of mimicking. Antigone procured for him the
honor of membership of the Philologen Versamm-
lunge of Cassel."

And yet in accordance with the laws of human nature,
there is no profession in the world more ready than the
musical profession, to criticise the intellectual standing of
other professions. An excellent organist a few days ago
was speaking of the mental calibre of the different pro-
fessions; very frankly he spoke of the intellectual
capacity of the bar and the church, etc. Of the men
who were the ministers, he said they represent the
very lowest grade of thinkers, as the men who become
physicians, very few are capable of any thought pure and
simple. He greatly added that there are some lawyers of
moderate ability. This is not an uncommon thing in the
musical profession; of all professions the least capable of
criticizing the intellectual standing of the professions
which require college training and systematic and scien-
tific professional training, as do all the professions above
mentioned. For the musical profession to smile at the
ability of any other profession has raised the doubt in the
mind of the thinking man, whether there is such a thing
as the musical profession. Some years ago a thoughtful
listener was present at a meeting of the National Teachers'
Association. He himself was a musical enthusiast, but he
went away saying, "Surely it is not strange that many of our
brightest men should be almost ashamed to acknowledge
that they are devoting their lives to music, when even
the leading lights in the musical profession make so poor
a display of thinking power in the great National
Convention." Platitudes, threadbare anecdotes, and
personal allusions, were the staples of the discussions. On
the subject of voice culture scarcely an idea was advanced
that had not already been advanced in every semi-musical
circle a thousand times before.

In piano study not a thought was expressed that was
not elementary, and to be found in almost any ordinary
treatise on music. Outside of one or two papers pro-
duced by musical critics whose lives had been devoted to
special criticism, and whose training had been literary
rather than musical, there was absolutely nothing that
was worth the journey from Philadelphia to New York
to hear.

* * *

Another thing was said by this same distinguished
organist. He made the remark that it was truly provoking
to the musician and artist to have early all the musical
criticism in the hands of men who knew nothing about
music, and his sweeping condemnation of the men who
write for music journals and for the great daily papers
and his general charge of ignorance was quite amusing.
The real truth is, there are very few musicians who are
capable of delighting an audience with their piano or
organ playing, or with their vocalization, who are at the
same time capable of writing anything fresh or instructive
on musical art. There are some exceptions, it is true.
There are one or two great artists in every generation
who are able to write also about music, because there
are a few great artists always who have literary gifts
and a high order of intellectual training as well as mere
musical education. Perhaps the greatest of all musical
critics was Schumann, (but even Schumann was
not an artist) and Rubinstein is a fresh and instructive
critic. There are some in our own country who are dis-
tinguished pianists, who are capable of writing most worthy
and profound and searching criticisms on music, but
they are indeed the exceptions.

HOME FOR AGED MUSICIANS.

This subject is one that is bound to come to the front
sooner or later. No class or profession need something
of this kind more than the musical. Musicians, as a
class, do not provide for their old age. They are often
reared as teachers until old age creeps over them,
when they are discharged without a moment's warning,
from positions they have held for years and their places
are filled by younger persons. In European countries,
teachers of this kind are pensioned. We have
known of numerous cases where there was nothing but
poverty and want to look forward to, after a life of useful-
ness. It is to call attention to the necessity of something
of this sort that the idea of such an institution has been
started and the matter is one which will take up the subject.
We will gladly print any opinions or suggestions that
may be made.

Rossini left, by will, a sum of money for a home for
aged musicians, which is successfully established in
Paris, and which is a success. The following we quote
about Verdi: "The crowning work of his life is not
'Falstaff' exactly, but the Home at Milan for unem-ployable
Italian musicians and singers. He hopes to be
able to take 120 persons of both sexes, and be its head
and live there and thus to be the best way to accommodate the
musical artists. Will it be more desirable for them to
occupy large rooms in twelves? Or would they prefer
small rooms for two, so that if one old person should
have a serious attack of illness in the night, another
will be at hand to render assistance?"

Quite recently a sum of money has been left by a be-
nevolent person in the city of Boston, for the widow of a
musician and for female music teachers. The sum is
sufficient to provide a permanent home for from 30 to 40
persons of the kind, and thus the good work has been
started and we hope that something of this kind will soon
be started in this country.
THE ETUDE. 111

WEAKNESSES OF MUSICAL STUDENTS.
BY JEAN LOIS CARUTHERS.

I THINK most persons will agree that the inaccurate,
unmeaning, timorous, and tuneless performances of the
large proportion of our children on any instrument
whatever, betoken a tranquil blank in their small and
precious heads; and after such trials I have listened to
the hurdy-gurdy street organ under my window, with
undeniable relief, since it, at least, exhibited a certain
cheerful method in its madness.

This is not the place for discussion of the philosophy
by which we arrive at the conclusion which should be a
self-evident proposition,—that anything, to be well
said, must take clear and definite mental form before the
first attempt at expression; from which was doubtless
drawn the warning, "Think before you speak."

Clear music thinking, writing, and reading are not
often expected, and still more rarely met with; but
would I be accused of great expectations were I to ask
a very small child to mentally compose some simple
and well formed statement and write it out for me in
her own handwriting? Or would I be considered to
possess absurdly advanced ideas should I point to a sen-
tence written upon the blackboard and expect its mean-
ing to be understood by an intelligent child, without
the aid of laboriously pronouncing each syllable? Yet
how many musicians, outside of singers who have been
especially trained to sight reading, obtain the dimmest
idea of a written musical phrase until after they have
heard it, or, forsooth, by articulating each tone aloud upon
some instrument?

It used to be said that the "three R's" were quite
indispensable to an ordinary English education, and a
certain degree of readiness in reading, writing, "rithmetic,"
etc. was expected by every schoolmaster, while I can
remember that mental arithmetic has been made a
special branch of study even in these degenerate times.
But is it ordinarily recognized that a musical education
is incomplete without an equal facility in composing,
writing, and mentally reading music? While every
music teacher knows that no small command of mental
arithmetic is requisite for the swift comprehension of
many complicated rhythms.

A successful and well known vocal teacher complained
bitterly to me that among all her American pupils she
had scarcely found one who could read a simple musi-
cal phrase, and added that as she had, of course, no
time to teach anything but voice building and tone pro-
duction, she was obliged to teach songs chiefly by rote.
A piano teacher will tell you that she has no time to
teach anything but piano playing; a harmony teacher
has no time to teach anything but harmony; and so—
where will we find any one who has time to teach music
independently of its particular instrument of expres-
sion.

A bright and musically talented young lady came to
me some time ago for lessons. She had studied the
piano for six years, and for the same length of time had
remained a member in good and regular standing of
one of the largest choruses in Chicago. In addition to
this she had studied singing with a prominent vocal
teacher for about a year. She played a Polish dance by
Scharwenka, with considerable effect, though with
noticeable lack of significance in the middle or trio
part.

I asked her to turn the page and sing the melody from
memory; she complied, with a look of undisguised
amazement, and sang the ascending phrase with much
logic and consistency downwards, completing in severe
unconsciousness a very clever improvisation, guiltless
of any resemblance to the original. Supposing it only
her memory which could play such pranks, I gave her
the book, asking her to sing the same melody from the
notes. The result was equally interesting, being a faint
reminiscence of her first tune, with variations. The
reason for her inconsequential rendering of the com-
poser's idea was very clear; while her fingers had
automatically played the passage a hundred times, there
was nothing, approximately like it in either her
mind or her memory.

Facing such mockery, our poet grimly asserts the
music of the future will "se some curious changes in
piano playing." How shall this be brought about?
Every artist who draws with pencil or paints with
brush will tell you that it is the eye which must be cul-
tivated to draw a straight line or round a beautiful
curve in color; even so every thoughtful musician feels
that it is the ear which must be educated to understand
the value and use of various intervals, their significance
in both melody and harmony; and that since the ear is
only the sense avenue to the mind, it is the mental
training which must come first of all, to form and direct
all modes of expression, whether vocal or instrumental.
—Vocalist.

It is much easier for a critic than to be correct.—
Disraeli.

Examine your own work with a severe criticism as
you do your fellow-laborers, and you will be surprised
to see your weakness.

HINTS AND HELPS.

LEARN all that there is to learn, and then choose your
own path.—Handel.

Contact with the powers of others calls forth new ones
in ourselves.—Weber.

In practising chords, play from the wrist, and think
of the inner notes—the outside ones are sure to be heard.

Do not withhold praise for the task well done; the
child looks up to you and wants to please; recognize it.

To find fault with another's work does not make your
own perfect.

Beware of self-satisfaction. It is the evil one's cover
for ignorance.

One never needs one's wits so much as when one has
to do with a fool.

Don't ignore your neighbor's brain; the chances are
it is better than your own.

Sometimes we may learn more from a man's errors
than from his virtues.—Longfellow.

When you explain what a pupil can find out for him-
self, you rob him of so much education.—Hanchett.

Be as conscientious in teaching an untalented pupil
as one of great promise. Good work tells everywhere.

Capacity and character in a teacher always command
respect; if you are not respected surely one or the other
is deficient.

Many persons criticise in order not to seem ignorant;
they do not know that indulgence is a mark of the
highest intelligence.

The teacher who lacks experience lacks a great deal,
but the teacher who leads a sceptic and a progressive
spirit, lacks everything.

To look for great and grand results without commen-
surate labor is like the expectation of a harvest where
there has been neither plowing nor sowing.

Let every exercise given to pupils have a purpose.
Tell that purpose, then the student may work intelli-
gently for an end.

It is not a sign of great knowledge to display temper.
A mind that cannot govern an abusive tongue, cannot
grasp and retain great ideas.

Music is never stationary; successive forms and styles
are only like so many resting-places—like tents pitched
and taken down again on the road to the Ideal.—Franz
Liszt.

Do not be careless or indifferent while your teacher is
talking to you. What he says is the result of years of
experience and observation, and is well worthy of your
consideration.

You may be a genius and still trample art under foot—
you may be the only possessing meagre talent and still
claim the respect due to him who strives worthily.—
Herbert Spencer.

A true musician will aim not only to have a technical
knowledge of his art, or of the branch which he is
making a specialty, but will strive to know the history
and philosophy of the art.

Never trust to a single hearing of a composition for a
final decision upon its merits. Good music wears well,
improving with each new performance, while the pleas-
ure of trashy works is evanescent.

There is no harm in being stupid, so long as a man
does not think himself clever; no good in being mean,
if a man thinks himself no more than a short way to the
heavenly kingdom.—George MacDonald.

A teacher often concentrates into a single sentence the
result of years of work and study. Forbearance the pupil
who has the faculty of seizing upon such gems of wis-
dom, and using them to his own advantage.

How many parents are there, alas! like the father of
Haydn, who said, concerning music: "As an occasion
it hath little dignity, having for its object nothing
better than mere entertainment and pleasure!"

Ye peddlers in art, do ye not sink into the earth when
ye are reminded of the words of Beethoven on his dying
bed, "I believe I am yet but at the beginning"? —Jean
Paul, "Il me semble que je suis encore au commence-
ment."—Schumann.

If you ask the pupil, after his fruitless attempt, "Is
the piece difficult?" then, to your surprise, he will an-
swer, "No, it is easy." Behind such a reply lurks con-
ceit, for he is imagining that nothing is too difficult for
him to overcome.—G. Hensel.

MUSICAL MOSAICS.
By W. F. GATES.
PRICE — $1.50

The very best sayings on musical topics, chosen
from the highest rank of

170 AUTHORS IN 600 QUOTATIONS.

Every teacher—every student—should own Musical
Mosaics. Instructive, practical, interesting and facci-
nating.
As a presentation volume it cannot be excelled.

[left column vertical advertisement with two illustrations of a mechanical apparatus (depicted as a piano-like machine with handles and cranks).]

PIANISTS' HAND GYMNASIUM.
PRE-EMINENTLY THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD.
FOR ACQUIRING MANUAL POWER.

MODERN PIANO TEACHER'S TECHNICON.
PRICE $2.50.

TEACHERS' TECHNICON.
(Liberal Discount to Teachers.)

(Repeated smaller text blocks in advertisement:)
STUDENTS' TECHNICON.
PRICE $1.50.

(Other smaller vertical and horizontal blocks:)
For improved method of practice in the acquirement
of strength, agility and elasticity of the fingers and wrist;
also for special training in independence of the fingers,
and for overcoming incorrect methods.

This instrument, which has practical endorsement by
leading teachers, is indispensable to every teacher of
the piano and every pupil who expects to master the
instrument in the shortest time and with the least pain
and fatigue.

Send for descriptive circular and illustrated catalogue.

Manufactured and sold by
J. H. CROWTHER & CO.,
808 South Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill.

(End of advertisement.)

[Bottom right corner small text seems cut off; lower edge contains finishing lines and possibly publisher info not fully legible.]

(Note on images:
- Two black-and-white illustrations in the left column depict a mechanical piano-like apparatus with levers, handles and a bench—one near the top of the ad and one near the middle; both show a child/pianist seated at an apparatus that appears to exercise or train the hands, with cranks and rods connecting to the keyboard area.
- A decorative header "THE ETUDE." appears at the top center with page number 111 at the top right.)
112

THE ETUDE.

SOME SECRETS OF SUCCESSFUL PRACTICE.
BY MADAME A. PUPIN.

Dear Sophronia,—When I promised you I would write and tell you some of the secrets of successful practice, I asked you to make out a list of the characteristics you had especially admired in the playing of different pianists, and which you would like visible, or audible in your own playing. I have your list before me; you say you would like your playing characterized by precision, equality, brilliancy, velocity, ease and deliberation; you would have the self-possession of the artist, and his perfect control over his fingers; you would like the different kinds of touch that shade from ff to pp, and above all, that peculiar quality of touch which you term 'velvety'; besides all this, you want to know how to memorize and how to conceive the effects which make a piece, played by an artist, sound so altogether different from the same piece played by an amateur, and then you pathetically add that it seems absurd to think that you can acquire any of them, unless at the end of a life-time.

Now if you are a good timist and can read notes readily, you may set to work at once, to acquire all those characteristics. First of all then, be it said, that there are three distinct stages of practice, and somewhere in these stages, you take up your arms, one at a time; for example, if you wish to play a passage with ease, deliberation, velocity, precision, and brilliancy, you must not begin practising with all these aims in view, for you never accomplish it, and to attempt to do it will only end in discouragement.

Before describing the three stages of practice, it will be necessary to mention an important preliminary. The student who wishes to follow this system of practice must be able to play a passage slowly, with perfect uniformity of tone. This is a necessity; it is the beginning of the secret, the foundation on which the system rests. For those who have not previously required this uniformity of tone, I will give a simple exercise, which may be practised five or ten minutes a day, or at odd moments on a table. Lay the elbow and arm loosely on a table,—the wrist may rest on a spool of cotton,—put the tips of the fingers on a place of white paper, in the shape they would have if placed on five consecutive white keys of the piano; make dots with a lead pencil on the paper just under the tips of the fingers. Lift each finger 20 or 30 times, and let it drop on the paper; if the finger be lifted loosely from the knuckles and without moving the first and second joints of the fingers, the finger will drop in the same spot each time—right on the dot. The object of this exercise is uniformity of touch.

Now transfer the hand to the keyboard, making the dots on the keys under the tips of the fingers. The thumb and little finger will have the dots near the edge of the key; the middle finger near the black key, and the other two fingers nearer to the middle finger, than to the thumb. Begin making the motion as before, with one finger at a time. Be sure to begin without dipping on the key so lightly it is not even depressed; then as the finger continues its motion, add a gradually increasing weight to the tip of the finger, and as the finger falls with more weight, play more slowly.

The table exercise gives these results without muscular effort, and the lesson will be gained on the keyboard, with a light drop, which is gradually increased to a heavier one, in becoming the pupil detects the first feeling of rigidity in the muscles. There is no use telling the player who is accustomed to play with a stiff arm, and wrist, to play with a loose wrist or a devitalized arm, for he does not know how this feels. But practising finger motions as above, first on the table and then on the keyboard, the student is conscious the moment when the stiffness comes into the arm, and can prevent it.

The keyboard exercise is easier, if, after the five fingers are laid on the keys, one is pressed and the others taken up; then these others go through the motions in turn.

(See exercise above.)

This exercise brings about such great results in an easy way, it should be practised several times a day. Whenever the hand and arm can conveniently rest on a table, these motions may be practised and a good habit established.

Ex. with 1st finger fixed.

Ex. with 2nd finger fixed.

Ex. with 3rd finger fixed.

Ex. with 4th finger fixed.

Ex. with 5th finger fixed.

Double tempo is the foundation for the three stages of practice. Play a passage,—a scale of eight notes, or a slow trill,—at the rate of one note a second, or even a little faster, six notes in five seconds; then play it exactly twice as fast, then four times as fast. Now in the first two tempos, the aim is perfect uniformity of motion and tone; each finger must rise to the same height and fall with the same weight. In the third tempo, however, the first of every four notes must be accented, that is, the finger playing the accented note must be raised higher and fall with greater weight on the key. Here you get the first idea of perfect control of the fingers; in the first two tempos, no matter what their speed may be, you aim at uniformity, and this uniformity must become a habit; in the third tempo, you choose that any one finger shall do a different thing from its usual habit, and it must obey.

Practice the first and second tempos,—one and two notes to a count or beat,—till the fingers play with uniformity unconsciously; then take up the third or accent-tempo, where you will at times call a certain finger to step out of its habit and make its motion a different way, and thus you gradually bring the fingers under the control of the mind.

It must be remembered that finished playing is a habit, and to secure this habit, the mind must be concentrated on one aim at a time, in the beginning of practice.

Before studying anything by the three stages of practice, the student must be able to play by a metronome; that is, must be able to play one, two, three, or four notes to each beat of the pendulum.

The first stage in practice must be the first or second tempo, that is, it may have one or two notes to a beat; it is at this stage which gives equal value to every note, or in other words, its aim is perfect uniformity of motion and tone. It must be practised forte and with decision.

The second stage is the exact opposite of the first stage, giving an accent to the first of every four notes, or of triplets, to the first of every three. In this accent, the finger must be lifted very high and fall, not stiffly, but flexibly, on its key, the other two or three fingers, as the case may be, strike near the key very lightly; thus you have one loud tone and two or three soft ones. As this passage is played by the metronome, with increased velocity, the force of the accent diminishes, and we go gradually into

The third stage, which being more rapid, the fingers cannot be raised so high, and consequently the accent of the second stage is an exaggerated accent of the rhythmic note, which stage, being practised with gradually increased velocity, leads insensibly into the third stage, in which we at last find all the perfection of a finished performance, by virtue of the careful practice of the first two stages. A thoroughly finished and reliable performance can be brought about, by practising at first, smaller, and later, larger, portions of a piece or study in this way, till it can be played as a whole, as well as it can be played in parts.

It is best to experiment first on this system of study with an etude which has continuous motion, beginning one's practice at one-third, or one quarter the rate of speed for the finished piece; for example, if the metronome time be 100, or even more for a quarter note, begin practising at 100 for a sixteenth note. This you will doubtless think is altogether too slow, but remember, it is into this slow tempo you have to put some of your aims, notably precision.

Precision is a quality easy to be acquired. No one need ever strike a wrong key—no one should strike wrong keys in practising. First, aim to strike each key exactly in the middle. If you had done that in the arpeggio of the dominant seventh, of D flat, you would not have slipped off the black keys to the white on the right or on the left; you took no aim at all, but struck at random. All technical exercises should aim at correctness in their slowest tempos; be sure of it in the rapid tempo. Second, practise no faster than you can play correctly, without hurrying; return again and again to the slower tempos, and work up to the higher rate of speed, consistent with perfection in every detail; beyond that do not go.

Frequent practise of the slow tempos gives deliberation, which is the opposite of hurrying. To acquire ease, prune off all unnecessary motions in the first or slowest tempos. Never play faster than you can play perfectly without effort. Cultivate the appearance of ease. Practising with a metronome will enable you to play with ease, all within your ability, for if you reach a tempo that you cannot play without hesitating, fumbling or scrambling, do not attempt to play it, but return to the slow tempos and work up, till the tempo becomes possible.

In a very slow tempo the finger motions are a quick up motion and a quick down motion, and between those motions a moment of perfect rest; any hesitancy of motion, or any wriggling between the up and down motions is an unnecessary motion to be pruned off. This is of vital importance, and is the first secret of a finished performance. Remember, your finished passage will depend on how you practise your slow tempos. You admire those even pearly scales, which may be said to look like this /\/\/\ /\/\/\ and then your slow tempos must be like this /\/\/\ /\/\/\. If you can imagine how infinitely fine and perfect your finished scale ought to look, then magnify that perfect form for the slow practise. Use a metronome as a graduated form to grow the slow to the fast.

Or imagine sixteen capital A's, graduated from one inch to one eighth of an inch in height; each successive one is like the first, only smaller; so must your practice be, the more rapid tempos like the diminishing A's, but never losing its perfect form. So if the first or slowest tempo be 'perfect', the second or more rapid tempos will be perfect too.

The work that is done in the slow tempos gives deliberation, and the work that is done in the faster tempos gives brilliancy and finish. If you practise the slow tempos with the will to make perfect, every sound will have the expression you wish to make. In the next letter I will give some practical illustrations and continue the secrets of successful practice.

LISZT'S HUNGARIAN RHAPSODIES.

The Magyars are probably the descendants of a Tartar Mongolian stock, and, from this, the chief branch of the inhabitants of the country, come the syncopated rhythms and forced accents which are so marked a feature in Hungarian music, says T. L. Southgate, in the Musical

Description of non-textual images:
- Near the middle-left of the page are five short musical-staff examples (printed notation). Each is a treble-staff exercise showing repeated single-note patterns or short scalar passages. Each example is captioned beneath: "Ex. with 1st finger fixed.", "Ex. with 2nd finger fixed.", "Ex. with 3rd finger fixed.", "Ex. with 4th finger fixed.", and "Ex. with 5th finger fixed." The staves illustrate finger-fixed practice exercises intended to show the motion of one finger held down while others move.
- At the top center is the periodical title "THE ETUDE." and the page number "112" at the top left. The page is laid out in dense newspaper/magazine column format with decorative serif type.
THE ETUDE. 113

Standard. The gypsies, the privileged musicians of
the country, have introduced the quaint terms, embellish-
ments, and grouped notes common to Oriental
music. These features of his native music are constantly
employed by Liszt; but they were not invented by him,
as some of his devotees fondly imagine. Haydn, who
lived in Hungary with Prince Esterhazy, in his "Gypsy
Rondo," notably in the slow movement, has his E flat in
symphony, and in many parts of his works, has made
use of those peculiarities. So has Beethoven in his
"King Stephen" music, Cherubini in his "Medea,"
and likewise Schubert in his "Fantasia in C major."
Among the latter names who have written in this style
are those of Brahms and Joachim. It is not therefore
to Liszt we must look for the introduction of Hun-
garianisms into modern music. And, moreover, it
should be pointed out that these features constitute a
provisionalism in art, and in the case of the augmented
seconds, their existence in the diatonic scale cannot be
accurately justified. To use them constantly is a sign
of mannerism; to say that Liszt often does this is to
charge him with being a mannerist. "The Fifteen
Hungarian Rhapsodies" occupy a much more important
position among Liszt's writings. Here again we find
the man, his nationality and disposition clearly dis-
played. It is hardly necessary to say that Liszt was
not the inventor of the Rhapsody, as has been absurdly
claimed for him. The term is as old as the period of
the Greeks, and the freedom of form which the use of
the designation implies has been taken advantage of
by several composers. In the time of Beethoven, Wor-
zischek, the Kapellmeister in the Imperial Chapel at
Vienna, published a set of Rhapsodies so fresh in
thought and redolent of genius that they might well
have borne the name of the great tone-poet himself on
the title-page. But here, though the pieces partake
somewhat of the nature of an improvisation, a certain
amount of regard was paid to form and thematic develop-
ment. Liszt, in his self-sufficiency, disdains any such
restrictions; consequently the Rhapsodies are remark-
ably free; however, though they consist of a single
fused movement, they cannot be termed shapeless, as
may be said of his other compositions. The fact they
are written in the Hungarian style, the characteristics
of which have been already pointed out, gives them a
singular freshness and piquancy to our western ears.
They have an eastern flavor about them, and a daring
boldness which cannot but arrest and secure attention.
They will not bear to be analyzed too closely, or the
poorness of thought, bombast, occasional vulgarity, and
the extravagance of diction which forms their staple
will be too surely revealed, and cause us to regard the
pieces as but weak imitations of the music of Liszt's
native country. It is a little singular that one never
notices these features on hearing the native Hungarian
bands playing their stirring and remarkable music. It
may be that the extraordinary verve and pathos
with which they play are natural to them, whereas
Liszt's lights and shades, forced accents, and rubato are
manufactured, and the composition lacks spontaneousity.
However this may be, the Rhapsodies, both in the
pianoforte form in which they make their appearance,
and also in their poignant, if coarse, orchestral arrange-
ments, must rank as his best compositions. The irre-
gular, unrestrained life of their author is mirrored in the
music. It is evident that the instrument for which he
wrote them, his beloved piano, supplied him with the
precise means he required of giving outward expression
to his inborn feelings. Many essays to play the Rhap-
sodies; probably only those of Magyar birth can thor-
oughly succeed.

MUSICAL HOMOGS.
BY LOUIE ELSOM.

The study of music has become so universal in the
United States that it is not surprising that the new field
has brought forth a great deal of chaff, together with its
wheat. We are not of those who imagine that the
American people are essentially unmusical, because
they tolerate and even demand a certain amount of
humbug in their favorite art. Any one studying the
history of the rise of music in America will be forced,
in viewing the progress of forty years, to acknowledge
that no nation, has made such rapid strides and such
healthy advancement in art in so short a time.
A music-printer of that epoch has given us statistics
which conclusively prove that our picture is not over-
drawn. The sales of some very successful pieces did
not exceed a thousand copies a year. To-day, the posi-
tion of affairs is totally changed. The sales of Beet-
hoven's works alone number tens of thousands of copies
annually; and the programmes of our choral and
orchestral societies have been held up for emu-
lation, abroad, by some of the best European journals.
But out of the abundance of the past have sprung the
weeds of the present. National thoroughness is not a
plant of such rapid growth, and, as a consequence,
much superficiality is cloaked under the universal "love
of music."
The humbugs that have sprung up to pander to this
feeling are easily recognizable, but deserve pointing out
to those who are young in study, and cannot yet distin-
guish the false from the true.
We need scarcely allude to the "patent" method of
teaching music by charts, cards, or other devices.
These do not teach music but do teach a mechanical
execution of tonic, dominant, and sub-dominant chords
in various keys,—a knowledge which the studious scholar
acquires without any trouble as he studies the scales,
providing he has a careful teacher. But these three
highly-respectable and eminently useful chords are
underneath three-thoroughs of all the humbug of music-
teaching and playing in America. If a man were to
give tuition in simple addition, subtraction, multiplica-
tion, and division, and, after the course, tell his pupil
that he had taught him mathematics, the deceit would
be apparent. Yet that is the method employed by the
musical tricksters. They teach the elements, and affirm
that these are the "whole."
The greatest part of the "popular" piano pieces or
American adaptions of the class of humbugs, for they are
written to foster the deceit. Take up any of the Silver
Sprays, Golden Waves, and other metallic wares (really
"brass") of the "favorite" composers, and you will
find them ticketed Fantaisie de Concert, Transcription
Brillante or with other pompous descriptions. Open
them, and (if you are not practically musical) you will see
an array of small arpeggio notes that impress you with a
sense of the difficulties of the work. Listen to them,
and you hear brilliant scramblings into the upper regi-
ster of the piano, and are ready to acknowledge virtuosi-
ty, at least, when you suddenly observe that these
scramblings are utterly devoid of meaning, and have a
spurious sameness. Then you have solved the riddle.
The piece is a "musical humming," and has endeavored
to impress upon you small tricks. Its trickishness and
dross are the purchase of the elementary chords in rapid
succession. The agitato of our own age, Liszt's rubato and
cross-hand passages are not so useful nor so difficult
as the arpeggio exercises of the modern showman of an
honest teacher (who will not arrive at Fantasies de
Concert for some years yet). The whole harangue can
be memorized in ten minutes. We have had several at
the keyboard who, in the brazen art of humbug, for almost all of
its splendid mechanical trickery, and mechanical borrowings,
are competent, indeed, small sums for teaching music in
an incredibly short space of time consider simply in
thinking of an arpeggio. A B C in technique often passes,
harmonically itself seems to be a very fitting study to
the superficial pupil, who is yet beyond being misled by
the clumsy deception above mentioned; and it is to this
higher grade of incapables that the inventor of new
systems of harmony addresses himself. In addition to
teaching the elements, a few chords and modulations,
his views on progressions, "progressions," are, to say the least,
progressive. He sticks a few examples of the misdeeds
of the Wagnerian school, and then tells his pupil, who
has studied perhaps a week, "Go, and do likewise."
In other words, his patent time-saving system of
teaching harmony consists in saying: "Write your
progressions as you please. There will always be simi-
lar instances in the works of Wagner, Brahms, or even
Schumann and Beethoven. Twenty dollars, please."
Another class of humbug, and a very numerous one, is
the too-learned vocal professor. He seldom teaches
singing that advertises as "a voice-builder," "teacher
of vocal technique," "founder of the respiratory or-
gans," or something of that terrifying sort. He does
not sing to any appreciable extent, but he has memor-
ized the entire nomenclature of "the little muscles with
the long names," and frightens his pupils with "thyro-
hyoid ligaments," "lateral crico-arytenoid muscles,"
"glosso pharyngeal nerves," etc.; and his room contains
a sanguinary assortment of throat models, in various
stages of dissection. We do not mean that all singing
should deny itself the advantages of scientific research,
but we assert that many of these pompous teachers only
use their slight physiological studies to befog and hum-
bug their pupils. Porpora, who certainly was a good
vocal teacher, was entirely ignorant of the anatomy of
the throat.
Another numerous class of innocent "humbugs" are
the young misses, who, while taking lessons of the one
hand, give lessons to very young scholars on the other.
They generally do this without consulting their teacher,
and of course without his sanction.
This pernicious practice of taking second-hand music
lessons is bred of the laughing idea, firmly rooted in
the uncultured mind, that "anybody" will do to teach
a beginner. As if "anybody" might do to plan a
house, while the bricks must be laid by an artist, or
"anybody" might be employed to cut a coat, but
the later work must be confided to the best workmen!
But there is scarcely need to define further. The
humbugs above sketched are the leading types. It is
saddest to distrust the conscientious professor who has
discovered some short method of the road to either plain
singing or the piano; or who teaches a young pupil, or a
child with a high opinion of him, to sing or play credul-
ously. The worst of the humbug is of course the cranks
and celebrities,—teachers who have been very young
and very poor and have in that condition been very
imprudent some years ago. Twenty years hence,
the profession will have passed through the stage of
needlessness; and then we shall see in existence the
earnest, reserved, and sane teacher; and when that day
comes the humbug will be, as now, a cheap thing.
"Realists of Tone."

AVE MARIA (Rock of Ages).
By W. H. H. SMITH.
For soprano, with violin obligato. A very effective solo, not
difficult and of wide range. Mailed to any address on receipt of the
price (60 cents) by the publisher.
IGN. FISCHER, Toledo, Ohio.

[Illustration: small vignette of a railroad, stage, tavern?]
RAILROAD
& TAVERN
[engraved vignette shows a small rural scene with a passenger train on tracks to the left, a two-story building marked "TAVERN" in center, and a horse-drawn carriage or wagon to the right; figures of people near the building and trees in background]
W. M. TUTTLE,
On the Illinois Central R. R. will leave Memphis, Tenn., at 8 o'clock, A. M.,
for Helena, Ark., where he will be in attendance at the Depot, every day
from 9 to 12 A. M., and from 1 to 3 P. M., where any person wishing to
secure a seat on his excursions can do so.
The Rail-Road Tavern is kept on the best of terms, and no pains are spared
to make it pleasant and comfortable to visitors. Table supplied with the
best of viands, and comfortable beds, and cheerful attendance.
Parties desiring to leave their baggage will find it secure, and in case of
accident will be promptly taken care of. W. M. TUTTLE will be happy to
render any assistance in his line at any time.

Back Numbers of The Etude
Unbound Volumes for 1886,
" " " 1887,
" " " 1888,
" " " 1889,
" " " 1890,
" " " 1891,
" " " 1892,
" " " 1893,
" " " 1894,
" " " 1895,
" " " 1896,
" " " 1897,
" " " 1898,
" " " 1899,
" " " 1900,
"Bound " " 1886,
" " " 1887,
" " " 1888,
" " " 1889,
" " " 1890,
" " " 1891,
" " " 1892,
" " " 1893,
" " " 1894,
" " " 1895,
" " " 1896,
" " " 1897,
" " " 1898,
" " " 1899.
These volumes contain from 18 to 20 dollars worth of music in each year. The prices below are for back numbers of unbound issues, 60 cents per number is the regular price to subscribers. Address the publisher who issues the Etude.

$1.50, Postpaid
1.50,
1.00,
1.50,
1.00,
1.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
1.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50,
2.50.

These volumes contain from 18 to 20 dollars worth of music in each year. The prices above are for the back numbers unbound; if wanted bound add $1.00 for binding. Postmasters will please attend to this. Address the Publisher,
THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

AMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVE,
MUSICAL AUTHORS.
A GAME FOR EVERY MUSIC STUDENT.
PRICE 35 CTS., POSTPAID.

The game, which consists of 48 cards, can be played by
any number of players. The object of the game is to
impress on the mind of the players the important events
in the lives of 48 composers and musicians.
Address Publisher,
THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

SOMETHING FOR EVERY PIANO PLAYER.

Album of Instructive Pieces
FOR THE
PIANO-FORTE.
PRICE $1.00.

ARRANGED - IN - PROGRESSIVE ORDER.

There are few really good collections of easy in-
structive music. This album will be welcomed as
supply in a well graded form all that the teacher will
require for the lower grades. The pieces are carefully
composed and chosen, and are well adapted to teach
those subtle effects of touch and expression which are
so necessary to a thorough musical education. The
collection cannot be excelled for formative
practice.

[Bottom right corner small advertisement cut off slightly]

[End of page]
114                              THE ETUDE.

BOOSEY & CO.,

NEW YORK.                        LONDON.

The following is a selection of our recent and successful Ballads, Songs, etc., etc.:—

The Holy City. STEPHEN ADAMS..............................75c.
Adieu, Marie! STEPHEN ADAMS.............................60c.
Never a Rose. F. A. COWEN..................................60c.
Listen to the Children. F. A. COWEN......................60c.
Anna Wiedersheim...............................................60c.
Queen of all the Roses. HOPE TEMPLE......................60c.
Love-Notions. HOPE TEMPLE................................60c.
A Fond Kiss. A. S. GRATTY?..................................60c.
The Carnival. J. L. MOLLOY....................................60c.
Love Comes to All. J. L. MOLLOY............................60c.
Rose of Kenmare. FRED. BRYANT..............................60c.
Easter Eve. CH. GOUNOD.......................................75c.
Old Navy. C. V. STANFORD....................................60c.
Love Me or Not. SCHOTT......................................60c.
Queen of My Days. ELLEN WRIGHT..........................60c.
Wisdom and Love. A. L. ???..................................60c.
Knight's Leap. F. CORBETT?...................................60c.
City Beautiful. P. ROBERTS?..................................60c.
Pilgrim of Nazareth. P. ROBERTS?.........................60c.
Now or Never. J. L. ROECKEL?...............................60c.
No Far an Answer. J. L. ROECKEL?..........................60c.
Eventide of Rest. MILTON WELLES?.......................50c.

NEW EDUCATIONAL WORK.

Now being used by the Leading Masters in America. Also at Royal Academy, Royal College, etc., London, England.

50 SOLFEGGI.

By F. P. TOSTI.

IN TWO BOOKS. PRICE $1.00, NET, EACH BOOK.

These Solfeggi have been written by Signor Tosti for the middle register of the voice, and are therefore equally suitable for all voices. They will be found most useful studies, and as melodious in character as to be practically songs without words.

JUST PUBLISHED.

ALBUM OF TWENTY NEW SONGS,
(ENGLISH AND GERMAN WORDS.)
By JAQUES BLUMENTHAL.

These Songs are considered to be the finest work ever produced by this Eminent Composer.

Paper Cover, $1.50. Cloth, $2.00.

GEORGE GROSSMITH'S SONGS.

CANTATA FOR CHILDREN,
"THE SWEETEST SONG,"
By J. L. ROECKEL.

LATEST ADDITION TO ROYAL EDITION.

SONGS FROM THE ORATORIOS.

A collection of Solos for all voices from standard works. All in original keys, with original accompaniments.

Write for our Catalogues. Free on Application.

SOLE AGENTS FOR:
ENOCH & SONS, London,
PATTERSON & SONS, Edinburgh,
JAMES BATH, London.

BOOSEY & CO.,
3 EAST FOURTEENTH ST.
NEW YORK CITY.

THE OCCASIONAL CORRESPONDENCE OF A MUSIC TEACHER.
BY JOHN COMFORT FILLMORE.

My Dear Friend — You are a young teacher, and I am an old one. I am very happy to give you the counsel you ask for; but nothing will take the place of your own experience. Do not think that I, or anybody, can tell you anything which will be of much use to you until you have made it your own by actual use. You will make some mistakes, of course; that is the indispensable condition of learning things in this world. Nevertheless, while it is quite true that knowledge gained by actual experience is the only knowledge which will do you any good, it is also true, fortunately, that the laying down of principles, the pointing out of the directions in which valuable experience is to be gained, will be of incalculable service to you. This service I will try to render.

You have, I am glad to see, a high and honorable ambition in your chosen profession. You wish your pupils to acquire not merely a superficial smattering of musical knowledge, still less to be parlor-players of the type familiar to us all, murdering "The Maiden's Prayer," "Silver Waves," and other cheap, slip-show and machine-made productions of alleged composers without genius, and without knowledge; you wish them to be musicians and also artists, according to their grade. In this you are entirely right. Even a young pupil may have genuine, sound musical knowledge, so far as it goes; and may play small, easy pieces by the greatest of masters with genuine artistic feeling. But in aiming at such results as these, I warn you that you will find much to discourage you. In the first place, you will have a great many pupils, some young and some not so young, whose natural artistic gifts are exceedingly limited. Then, in the case of children who have natural artistic capabilities, you will find many who desire to accomplish results for themselves — their willingness to work. Industry, severe and long-continued, is the one condition of success; but there is a vast number of pupils who are extreme, or wholly unwilling to fulfill this condition. Many desire to play and play well, who are unwilling to go through the amount of labor necessary to attain the goal.

Then there are many who are careless. They force themselves or are forced by their parents to spend time enough each day at the piano to accomplish the results you and they both desire; but they practise listlessly, with their minds preoccupied with something else beside their music. Of course no results can be got in that way, either in technique or in interpretation. It is not so much the amount as the quality of work that tells on the result. And this many pupils cannot or will not see. They never do anything really well, and nobody can make them do so. They will have to discipline themselves if they ever accomplish anything worth while. It is generally a long and severe struggle on the part of both teacher and pupil, to get anything out of this class of pupils. Frequently it results in failure. There is still a worse class of pupils which I have often met: those who are insufferably vain and whose vanity is fostered by the folly of judicious parents. I know mothers who are always anxious to have their children show off, and who are never satisfied unless the child is constantly working, no matter how superficially, at show-pieces which are entirely beyond its present capacity and attainments. These cases are perhaps the worst that teachers have to deal with. But between lack of musical talent, lack of mental discipline, lack of power of comprehension, lack of industry, and lack of good sense on the part of both pupils and parents, you will find a large proportion of your class, wherever it may be, who will give you very little pleasure or satisfaction. And often those who are most at fault in the quality of their study are most ready to find fault with you, when tangible results in the shape of ability to show off before admiring friends and envious rivals, do not speedily appear.

All this you will have to face, if you mean to make music-teaching a profession. You will never make any money; all that you get you will get by hard work and drudgery, often with small thanks, sometimes with misunderstanding and abuse. Your aims will not be appreciated by the more of the community in which you live.

If they are as high as I believe them to be, you will be looked on as a "crank" by many who call themselves "practical." There will be a majority of your townsmen who will be carried away by such trash as "Tarantas-boom-de-ay," and "After the Ball," and will not care a straw for any music which represents brains, genius, creative power, intelligence, or any quality of mind which you or I respect. In the small town in which you live, you will have very few opportunities to hear good music performed by great artists; you will have few or perhaps no associates whose aims and tastes are similar to your own; you will have to depend on your own resources for your own maintenance and give, give continually, out of them for the benefit of your pupils. It will be all give and no take in, except from your more private study of the greatest works and from your occasional visits to the nearest great city and your occasional intercourse with the best musicians you know there. You will get some encouragement out of a small percentage of your best pupils and out of a few friends who are appreciative to the extent of their knowledge and ability; but that is all. The most of your experience will be far from inspiring. If you run away from it all and try to establish yourself in a large city where your opportunities may be greater, you will find all the circles overcrowded; and besides, they have their full proportion of unmusical people. A large share of city teaching is fully as uninspiring and unremunerative, from a musical point of view, as that in the small towns, or even in the country districts. Some of the most promising pupils I have ever had have come from the latter.

Now, if you are going to be disheartened by all this, you had better make up your mind at once, before it is too late, to quit the profession, and leave music-teaching to be done by somebody who has more pluck, faith, and energy. But I warn you that, if you have not these qualities, you will be just as badly off in any other occupation as in that of a music-teacher. "Pluck," said Charles Kingsley, "is the only thing that will wash." He was entirely right. Go at the difficulties pluckily and you will attain a fair measure of success. Do not be discouraged because your success is not at all that you could desire; complete satisfaction is not to be had in this world. Hold yourself strictly responsible for everything in your work which belongs to you; don't worry yourself by worrying too much over the faults of others, for which you are not responsible, and the correction of which you can only play a subordinate part. Do your best, and then do not worry about the results. Says Carlyle: "Let a man do his work; the fruit of it is the care of another than he." And so I bid you "God-speed," and for this time, good bye.

LOOKING AHEAD.
BY J. F. ALDOUS.

The cause of many a stumble and many a mistake with the average pupil will be found in a lack of the faculty of looking and thinking ahead. In piano playing, as in other spheres of life, it is essential to provide for the future. The passages you are playing are like a long road before you, and unless you look ahead and prepare for it, your fingers will be found to have no idea what is to follow. You must not be satisfied with the mere correct performance of the present bar. You must look forward one or two bars, and even farther, and form an idea of what the effect is to be, the character of the phrase, the manner in which the tone is to be produced, the dynamics, and the time relations. If you do not, you will be constantly taking a wrong step and will find yourself in difficulties at every turn. The hand will lag, or the finger will stumble at the next entry. The true test of musical power is not how well you can play one note or one bar, but how well you can look ahead and connect things together, prepare the hand for the execution of what is to come, and secure the proper quality of tone and time. Many a good student fails because he neglects to do this. Practice, therefore, not only the present bar, but the next, and the one after that, and the two following. The habit of looking ahead will make you a better player; it will give security and confidence, and will prevent many mistakes which come from surprise and uncertainty. Concentrate your attention upon the whole span of the phrase, and train your eye and intellect to go beyond the immediate step. In time the fingers will obey the mind, and the mind will be quickened and enlarged by the habit of foresight. Endeavor to form clear musical intentions before executing, and remember that forethought is the root of effective and expressive playing.

Description of non-textual elements:
- Page is a single newspaper/magazine page with three columns separated by rules; there are decorative rule lines and ornamentation at the top and between sections. There are no photographs or pictorial illustrations—only typographic ornamentation, boxed advertisement panels, and small typographic symbols (stars, dots, rules) used as section separators. The left column contains a boxed advertisement for Boosey & Co. with lists of song titles and prices; the center and right columns contain editorial articles with column headers and by-lines. The paper shows slight aging/toning and some darkening near edges.
THE ETUDE. 115

MUSICAL GAME.

ALLEGRANDO.

Instruction and Pleasure Combined.

A SPLENDID GAME FOR EVERY HOME.

This game contains 40 cards, on which the different notes and rests are printed, one on every card. After a number are distributed among the players, the cards are played in succession and so added together as they are played until the value of a whole bar is reached, when that player wins the pile. The winner will find, besides amusement, much useful instruction in the combination of notes and rests into bars. For the convenience of teachers, we have issued a special set of cards for the children of singing schools and musical institutions. Price 50 CENTS.

Address Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

"SPECIAL OFFER"
TO
TEACHERS, — SCHOOLS,
AND
CONSERVATORIES.

Send your address to us and we will send you a copy of our "Special Offer" and Samples of our new "Pupil's Practice Slips." If you are good music you will find it greatly to your advantage. If a teacher, state what you teach—piano, voice, or violin. If a vocalist, mention voice.

THE B. F. WOOD MUSIC CO.,
Music Publishers,
110 BOYLSTON STREET, BOSTON.

MENTION THIS PAPER.

Hallet & Davis' Pianos,
BOSTON, MASS.
More than 200 Pianos Sold to Schools and Colleges in 1891.

CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.

[Graphic: circular sunburst emblem with radiating rays; central seal and surrounding curved lettering (details illegible). Below emblem:]
CATALOGUES FREE.
323 TO 333 SO. CANAL STREET.

TRADITIONAL BEETHOVEN PLAYING.
BY EDWARD BAXTER PERRY.

How often of late years we hear this expression. Will some one who claims to know, kindly tell us what it means? For one, I confess myself, after a decade of careful, thoughtful investigation, utterly unable to find out. We hear one pianist extolled as a wonderful Beethoven player, as a safe, legitimate, trustworthy champion of the good old classical tradition; and another equally eminent artist condemned as wholly unworthy to lift for the public the veil of awe and mystery enshrouding the mystic sublimities of this grandest of tone-Titans.

The late von Bulow, for instance, was well-nigh universally conceded to be the representative Beethoven player of the age; for no better reasons, so far as I can discover, than that he was generally admitted to be a failure in the presentation of most works of the modern school, and that cold, calculating, cynical intellectuality was the predominant feature of his personality and his musical work, which made him the dryest, most unideal, uninteresting pianist of his generation, in spite of his phenomenal technique, memory and mental power.

On the other hand Paderewski, with all his infinitely magnetic personality, his incomparable beauty of tone and coloring, his blended nobility and refinement of conception, is decried as a perverter of taste, a destroyer of tradition and precedent, because, forsooth, he plays Beethoven too warmly, too emotionally, too subjectively.

De grace, messieurs, what does it all signify? Are we then to accept perfunctory rule as final, in spite of our better instincts, the dictum of the long since petrified Leipzig School, which holds technique of the hand and head, not only as the supreme, but as the sole element in musical art? Which relegates all emotion and its expression to the despised limbo of sickly sentimentality, and which epitomizes its highest encomium for an artist in the words: "He allows himself no liberties." That is to say, he plays merely the notes, with the faultless precision and sonorous monotony of a machine. Is this then traditional playing of Beethoven or any other composer? Is it art at all? If there is any such thing as an authentic, authoritative musical standard concerning any given composition, upon what does or should it rest? Surely either upon the way its composer rendered it, or desired it rendered, if that can be ascertained, or upon the way it was given by its first great public interpreter. Let us examine the scanty available data concerning Beethoven's piano works from this point of view. How did Beethoven himself play his own works?

This question reminds one of the century old dispute among scholars as to the propriety of the so-called English pronunciation of Latin, an absurdity in the face of it. Fancy talking of the English pronunciation of French or German! Of course we do not know and have no means of knowing exactly how the old Latins did pronounce the language in all the niceties of detail, but one thing we do know with absolute certainty, and that is that they did not Anglicize it, for the one good reason that our language did not come into existence until long after the Latin tongue was dead.

Similarly, as there is no one living who can remember and tell just how Beethoven did play any given sonata, and as nineteenth-century phonograph was not then invented, to preserve for us the incalculably precious records of his interpretations, we have no means of ascertaining just what his conceptions were, even supposing they had been twice alike, which they probably were not. But this we may be sure of, beyond a question or a doubt. He did not play them according to von Bulow. Furthermore there is no ground for believing that his performances were at all such as the conservative sticklers for classic traditions insist that our renditions of Beethoven must be to-day. We know this from a study of the life and characteristics of the man, from the internal evidence of his works, and from the reports given us by his contemporaries of his manner of playing them and their effect upon the hearer.

Beethoven was pre-eminently a romanticist, in the content if not always in the form of his works, a man of pronounced, self-loyal individuality, and intense subjectivity, who wrote, and consequently must have played as he felt, and not in accordance with prescribed rules and formulae; a man who can reply with immodesty when criticised for breaking a pre-established law of harmony, "I do it," with the calm confidence in the divine right of genius to self-utterance in its own chosen way, which always accompanies true greatness and has been the infallible compass of progress in all ages.

The man who was the fearless outspoken champion of artistic sincerity and freedom and earnestness, whose scorn of shallow, pedantic formalism was as uncompromising as his own irrepressible, whose watchword was universality of manner, whose ideal was directness and naturalness, could not have been an exponent of severe classicism, who might cold and unconscious, without soul, thus deprive his music of all its noblest and special meaning. It is impossible to imagine Beethoven playing according to any so-called conventionality. His music must have been as new and strange to his first audiences as it is to ours. His life was one of fierce dramatic purpose and heart-speech and he would have put his whole soul into his playing. The later tradition which hardened into so-called "classical" performance, which demands monotony of phrase and timbre, and cold and mechanical compliance with the poetic "metre" of the score, is as foreign to Beethoven's temper and genius as it is to the temper of the modern musical imagination.

The more we study the man and his works the clearer grows our conclusion that the true Beethovenian style must be full of glowing individuality, spontaneity, inflection, and direct speech; that we should look upon him as the exact opposite of the dead model man of school-room traditions. He was the most human of geniuses and the most modern of them in his personal needs and aspirations. It is impossible to imagine him doing anything purely conventional and formal. He must have been a strong, living, impulsive actor at his instrument, a master of elocution, skilled in phrase and rhythm and nuance, able to make his hearers feel and understand his moods.

It follows that to play Beethoven properly we must be able to make him speak in terms of modern feeling, with all the ardor and spontaneity of interpretation that the present day performance demands. To play him coldly and symmetrically is to do violence to his very nature. We must render him as an inspired human being and teacher would have rendered him, not as an automaton of the Leipzig school.

I honestly believe that if Beethoven himself could revisit the world and appear incognito in the concert halls of our musical centres, to give an ideal, authoritative rendition of his great works, one half of his audience and nine tenths of his critics would hold up their hands in holy horror at his untraditional and un-Beethoven-like readings, and would declare that while he was an interesting and magnetic artist, and an enjoyable player, his style was nevertheless not conformable to the cold classical standard, and could not be accepted by the conservative fashion of performance.

(Concluded in next issue.)

A VALUABLE HINT.

Editorial in Vocalist.

One of the purposes of this column is to suggest beneficial ideas to the singing teacher. I have had a thought in mind for a year or more which I wanted to verify before speaking of it and trying to draw a lesson from it. It is this: that our best musical instructors are seeking those cases and women for teachers who have already established their reputations. The colleges do not care to make reparation for teachers, and do not care to engage teachers who are perfectly good, without they have become somewhat famous. Now, what is the lesson? Get a reputation, of course. It has commercial value. How can one do it? That is not so easy to answer. Every one can find a way to do it, and perhaps no two can achieve a reputation in exactly the same way. Rest assured of one thing: the man talked about is sure to become well known. If he is well spoken of his good name grows. We laugh at and decry printers' ink, but it spreads one's good name quicker and better than does anything else. Reports of the concerts of Theodore Thomas have long been the talk of the public, yet the musical merits of the concerts are beyond question. The name of Theodore Thomas has had the value of publicity. Similarly, the young singer who gets into an opera company with good management, or who appears under the best conductors, immediately becomes noteworthy, and no matter what the permanent value of such exposure it does at least give the young singer a reputation. And this also may be said of teachers: those who have had the good fortune to share in something that has produced notice find their services in demand.

Description of non-textual images and graphic elements:
- Header: THE ETUDE is printed across the top center of the page with the page number 115 at the top right.
- Decorative rules and separators: horizontal lines and small ornamental type separate title blocks and columns throughout the page.
- Lower-left graphic: a prominent circular sunburst emblem occupying the lower portion of the left column. The emblem is composed of numerous radiating lines (rays) around a central circular seal that contains finer detail (a small device or crest) and curved lettering around it; the precise words within the circular device are not fully legible in the image. Directly below this emblem is the line "CATALOGUES FREE." and the address line "323 TO 333 SO. CANAL STREET."
116

THE ETUDE.

PUBLISHER'S NOTES.

We have published a new edition of "Studies in Melody Playing," Vol. I. The volume has been greatly enlarged; the first edition had only 23 pages, while the new edition has 81; the entire set has been closely graded, and Vol. II will form a continuance of Vol. I, thus making a complete graded course of pieces. Vol. II will also be revised and enlarged shortly. The price remains the same. This set of pieces we now consider, perhaps, the best collection of easy, choice, and attractive pieces ever published. Every one is a gem. They are selected from the best authors. Almost every author who has written easy pieces is represented in the set. The annotations are copious, the fingering is carefully done, and the phrasing is correct. The whole set forms one of the best collections of instructive pieces it is possible to put together.

* * * * *

One of the most useful things that The Etude furnishes its subscribers is its advertisements. No progressive and "up to the times" teacher can afford to miss a thorough and thoughtful reading of the advertisements of this magazine. Try it once, and see what you will get from them.

* * * * *

The Etude would like to present to its readers ways of conducting weekly classes in musical history, biography, and especially in musical theory, harmony, and general musical information, such as is gotten from the text primers, etc. Please write up how you are conducting your general class work, and send it to us.

* * * * *

Have you a clear appreciation of how much The Etude would do for your pupils? Get up a club among them, and then talk about its articles in your weekly class, or when they are with you at the lesson hour, and if what many teachers write is true, and it doubtless is, you will find a quickened and active interest in music among your pupils that will do you good.

* * * * *

Send us your programs. We will not promise to publish them, but we desire to tabulate them, and give our readers an idea of the kinds of music that is herewith used for recitals and concerts. By comparison we can make out a list of the most used pieces, and so help you in making up your selections for another season.

* * * * *

Be sure to put your name, upon, and also inside of the package of music that you return to us, or we cannot make your account out correctly. Please give careful attention to this, and so save much vexation, trouble, and, perhaps, hard feelings regarding your account, all through no fault of this office.

* * * * *

We carry a large stock of violin music, methods, etc. This stock includes combinations of all kinds of string and wind instruments. We also have a fine lot of flute music, methods, studies, etc. We can fill orders for anything in these lines. Try us.

* * * * *

We have a fine lot of music for piano and reed organ combined. Also a selection with piano, reed organ, violin, or cornet, or flute, etc. We can fill orders for anything in the line of pipe organ music for church, concert, or private use.

* * * * *

We have just printed a new edition of "Touch and Technic," Vol. I, which several important additions are made, a page and a half entirely new matter being added to the volume. We have printed all the new matter separately, in sheet form and can furnish it at 10 cts. per copy, subject to the usual discount.

* * * * *

There has been considerable delay in the issuing of the second volume of Landon's "School of Reed Organ Playing," but the same is now on press and will be ready about the time this issue goes out. This volume contains the same amount of material as one of the grades of "Mathews' Graded Course for the Pianoforte," and is very much on the same order, containing the best variety of material for the cabinet organ, and we believe it to be far in advance of anything on the market. This grade is intended to follow the instruction book. We shall be glad to send it on sale to any one who may desire to examine it.

"Embellishments of Music," which has been delayed on account of the difficulty of making the ancient signs, is on press and will be ready about the time this issue is in the hands of our readers, when we will send copies to all who have subscribed for it. We feel confident that this volume will meet with a great deal of favor. It is a work of unusual merit, very interestingly written and contains a great deal of information about music in general. The special offer on the book is now discontinued. But the special offer on the four new works (as in April issue), is still in force during this month.

The present is an opportune time for us to remind all teachers, and especially conservatories of music, of our blank form of diploma, or certificate. It is so worded as to be applicable to either to all branches of music or education. It is neatly engraved, and printed on parchment paper about the size of an Etude page.

We would suggest that a fine penman fill out the blanks when the diplomas are given.

The price of a sample is 10 cents, or $1.00 for a dozen.

TESTIMONIALS.

I have received your "Classic Gems for Four Hands," and most sincerely congratulate you on having brought together some of the most exquisite gems with which I am acquainted. Certainly this is a book which no progressive teacher can afford to do without.

E. L. DONOHOE.

I have received Vols. Six and Seven of the "Mathews" Graded Course of Studies for the Pianoforte," and am much pleased with them, especially the Grade Six.

I also received the "Pedals of the Pianoforte," by Hans Schmitt. I have, for some twenty years, used this book, and in my home for some time it has been limited, but I must say that I very seldom have a copy that I can take every word of the author with that unlimited faith as I have these few pages, and I feel safe in saying that I like the whole book, and would not part with it for twice its price. I esteem Mr. Mathews and Mathews, though I can't quite agree with all their ideas, but their Schmitt says nothing that can clash with common sense and good judgment, to my way of thinking. I hope we are not surprised at the new ideas that Mr. Mathews will give his pupils many years in teaching the same.

A. J. HENDERSON.

I may continue to use of your edition of "Mason's Touch and Technic." I have accomplished some wonderful results therewith. Pupils who invariably objected to scales or studies of any kind, have been charmed and interested and benefitted beyond measure by the Mason Studies.

ANNA R. HUGHSBURGER.

I shall try to secure a few new subscribers for the Etude, though out town is small. I have not been more pleased with any other musical journal than I have been with The Etude. Every page contains some valuable thought, and the journal is useful alike to the teacher, the amateur, and the professional musician. The compilers are good, judicious, and generally, the music, too, is of a good order, and very instructive. In fact, I cannot say too much in favor of the Etude and its promoters.

MRS. BEATRICE VAN H. TING.

I have quite recently received two of your latest publications, viz.: "Pedals of Pianoforte," by Hans Schmitt; "Working Book for Music Pupils," by C. W. Landon. I find them each in their own way invaluable.

The work on Pedals is very exhaustive, and one that no musician should neglect to study; while for teachers and pupils it supplies a long felt want.

The writing book is the best I have yet used, and though there are many others to choose from, I shall use only C. W. Landon's.

S. S. HENDERICKSON.

The Etude has given me better lessons in music than I have ever received from my piano teachers. I have studied with the best and highest-priced teachers in San Francisco, and it is a sad confession to make, but it is true that the piano teachers do not teach the principles of music.

MRS. HENRY BROWN.

The Practice cards have had such a charming effect on my pupils, little as well as big, that I would not be without them; better lessons, more punctual pupils, and more interest on all sides.

JESSIE C. HUTTOCK.

Among your many excellent publications I think it would be difficult to select a finer work than "Howards' Course in Harmony."

My studies in Harmony and Counterpoint with one of the most eminent composers in the country, added to an experience of several years in teaching Harmony, enable me to form, as I believe, a clear judgment concerning a work of this kind. I am satisfied that this is the best work I have ever seen.

FRANK L. COLLINS.

I have received and examined the Eighth grade of the "Graded Course in Piano Studies" by Mr. W. S. B. Mathews. They contain many original and superior ideas, and are full of genuine musical qualities. The technical difficulties are arranged progressively. The annotations on each composition; the studies for left hand practice, and bravura playing, are invaluable to teachers as well as pupils.

Pupils taught by these Studies, with the careful application of "Mason's System of Touch and Technic," should make rapid progress.

JEAN OTHALIA YOUNG.

The sketch after Millet's "Angelus," by Wilson G. Smith, which I found in The Etude, I used in the public examination of the American Conservatory Analytical class and one class (57 members) made a fair report. I also played it as an illustration in my lecture on "A Theory of Interpretation," delivered before the Ind. M. T. A., at La Porte, last summer.

A. J. GOODRICH.

I am very much pleased with the copy of "Romantic Studies," by Wilson G. Smith. I have also received the second volume of "The Musician," by Ridley Prentiss, and am even more pleased with it than the first grade.

MRS. MARY WHITT.

I have examined Mr. Smith's "Romantic Studies," with interest and found them very attractive and brilliant. I trust they may receive the deserved recognition by the profession.

HARRY S. SCHWARTZ.

I have received and examined Mr. Wilson G. Smith's "Romantic Studies," for the pupil. The melodic qualities of these studies are invaluable for forming the taste of pupils, and Mr. Smith should be thanked for arranging the technical difficulties for the middle grade pupils.

They serve as a valuable introduction to the great works of the old masters. Each study is a gem.

JESSIE OCHTATA YOUNG.

In response to your wish to give your opinion on "The Pedals" by Hans Schmitt, I must say that I do so with great pleasure. It is well written (well translated and must win the admiration of all eminent teachers). The clearness of expression fits it equally well for the general, should say study, of the student also.

Its greatest usefulness lies in the fact that it calls the attention of the student to a very important part of his art, and thereby opens to a few fresh, a field that is to a great extent a new thing to a large class of students. It is true that henceforth his studies will be increased, but the additional work, for the future, must be of equal value, and the result will be to compel an elevation of piano tone and the cultivation of real intelligence and power in the execution of the work. The real shortage in the new Pedagogy is not in the high school teaching of methods and studies, but in the necessary art of giving an orderly, systematic, and rational outline of the technical aims of piano study, in order to secure the best results.

WILLIS M. SMITH, A. M.

I am fully convinced that "The Pedals" are as valuable as any other method published for this particular subject. The general plan is carefully arranged, and the position of the pedal is well defined throughout the book. The exercises are of the best kind. The author's experience has given him the most reliable points on which to judge.

E. V. ADLER.

I am much pleased with the eighth grade of "Mathews' Graded Course of Studies for the Pianoforte," which I ordered from you in advance. It is beautifully printed, carefully and helpfully corrected and annotated. The fingerings in the different grades are an aid to the pupil and of great assistance to the teacher.

R. S. EARL.

[There is some small ornamentation and faint stains and smudges near margins of page.]

Description of non-textual elements:
This is a scanned black-and-white page (page number 116) from a vintage music magazine titled THE ETUDE. The page has a decorative masthead with the title centered at top. The text is arranged in multiple narrow columns with section headings such as "PUBLISHER'S NOTES" and "TESTIMONIALS." There are visible age-related marks: faint foxing, small dark stains, smudges, and slight edge wear. The paper shows uneven inking in places and minor bleed-through from the reverse side. No photographs or illustrations appear besides small ornamental rules and typographic decoration. The overall page shows typical wear of an old printed periodical.
THE ETUDE.                                                             117

PHILADELPHIA

SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL,

BEGINNING JULY 2, AND CONTINUING FOUR WEEKS,

IN THE BUILDINGS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Unsurpassed Advantages to Those Desiring a Knowledge of Dr. Wm. Mason's Touch and Technic.
Lectures and Recitals Daily.    +    +    Classes in Harmony, Sight-Singing, History, Voice Culture, Etc.

FACULTY.

DR. WM. MASON,                J. C. FILLMORE,             LOUIS ELSON,               DANIEL BATCHELLOR,
W. S. B. MATHEWS,             DR. H. A. CLARKE,          CHAS. W. LANDON,           M. VAN GELDER,
A. W. BORST,                  FREDERICK W. ROOT,         MRS. MARY GREGORY MURRAY, and others.
MISSES MARIE and MARTHA WALTHER, Special Assistants of Dr. Mason.

DEPARTMENTS OF STUDY
(TAUGHT IN CLASSES.)

HARMONY, ELEMENTARY AND ADVANCED,     COUNTERPOINT,     MUSICAL FORM,
THE ART OF TEACHING,                   SIGHT SINGING,    TONIC SOL FA,     QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS,
PRACTICE CLAVIER AND TECHNICON,       CHORUS CLASS,     ORGAN AND VIOLIN (Private Only).

Full-Course Ticket, $25.00, which includes admission into all Classes, Lectures, Recitals, and two lessons a week in classes of five in Piano or Voice.
Tickets, without the two lessons weekly, $15.00.
Private Lessons extra.
The University Extension Summer Meeting, which will be held at the same time, forms an additional attraction. Students of the Music School will be admitted to this course by paying $5.00 extra. For circulars and information regarding the University Extension Courses, write to DR. EDWARD T. DEVINE, 15th and Chestnut Sts.
For full information regarding Board, Rooms, Piano Rent, etc., address

THEO. PRESSER, 1708 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA.

Non-textual image description:
A large black-and-white engraving of a grand Gothic-style university building viewed from the front-left. The structure features multiple steeply pitched roofs, ornate gables, tall narrow arched windows, and several prominent towers and spires—one central tower rising higher than the rest. Trees frame the left side of the scene. In the foreground is an open grassy area or drive with small groups of people (rendered as dark silhouettes) gathered or walking near the building, providing a sense of scale. The sky behind the building is shaded, giving contrast to the architectural details. The engraving is enclosed in a rectangular border.
118                                        THE ETUDE.

Two Concert Etudes
FOR THE PIANOFORTE.
By ADOLPH M. FOERSTER, Op. 37.

No. 1. EXULTATION, - - - - - 50c.
No. 2. LAMENTATION, - - - - - 40c.

These rank among the more important of modern pianoforte compo-
sitions of recent date, and are exceedingly valuable for certain phases of
musical expression. They are difficult, but well worth the study
required for their accurate performance.

GEW. CHADWICK says: "I find them not only extremely
beautiful and expressive, but grateful and artistic musically."

DR. N. K. ELSENHEIMER says: "Both compositions can be
well recommended for technical programmes, where variety is to be a
conspicuous feature."

ARTHUR FOOTE says: "I find the two Etudes most interesting,
'Lamentation' especially, so full, of musical sentiment."

W. W. GILCHRIST says: "I admire them exceedingly."

DR. H. H. ALLAN says: "They are altogether beyond the common order
of excellence, and from actual tests have been found effective both
for instructive and concert purposes."

A. H. HARTRANFT says: "They are large and impressive
compositions, written in an earnest style, and will be exceedingly
interesting to any player who can command his instrument."

EMILIE LIVING says: "They form a decidedly valuable addi-
tion to American piano literature."

CONSTANTIN STERNBERG says: "I think they will prove
valuable material in teaching,—the one rhythmically, the other as
a lyric study."

The two will be mailed for 45 cts., postage paid, to readers of
THE ETUDE.

PUBLISHED BY
CLAYTON F. SUMMY,
174 Wabash Avenue, - - - CHICAGO.

[Thirty-second Year.]

AMERICAN
ART JOURNAL.
FOUNDED 1863.

THE LEADING MUSICAL
AND
MUSIC TRADE WEEKLY.

OFFICES: 23 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK.
WM. M. THOMS, EDITOR.

PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY.
Subscription $3.00 a Year.

PALMER'S
New Pronouncing Pocket Dictionary
of Musical Terms.
2600 TERMS DEFINED.

A new and greatly enlarged edition of the Pocket
Dictionary has recently been issued, which contains up-
wards of 2600 definitions, covering about all that is
required by musical students and teachers. It should
be in the possession of every person who studies music.

PRICE 25 CENTS.
Address
THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut St., Philada., Pa.

SELECTED
CRAMER STUDIES.
From the Von Bülow Edition.

PRICE $1.50. FIRMLY BOUND.

LIBERAL DEDUCTION TO THE PROFESSION.

The Volume contains the choicest of the Von Bülow
editions, which are published in sheet form, in four
books. This abridged edition can be used in most cases
for the complete work. Only the most difficult and im-
portant ones have been eliminated.

Address Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

THE MUSICAL MESSENGER

A POPULAR MUSICAL MAGAZINE FOR
TEACHERS, PUPILS, AMATEURS,
AND MUSICAL PEOPLE.

Sheet music size, 82 pages each month (sometimes 40
pages), with cover, with always an Anthem Supple-
ment of eight or more pages.

The reading consists of instructive articles on singing
and playing, musical theory, illustrated biographies of
well-known musicians, illustrated stories, all the latest
musical news and gossip, and everything calculated to
make a musical journal interesting and instructive to
the general musical public.

The music is all new, written especially for The
MESSENGER by the most popular composers,—instruc-
tional music for the piano and organ, and vocal music,
sacred and secular, for the home, the concert, and church.

The general verdict of the people is that THE MES-
SENGER is the handsomest musical journal published,
and gives more for the money than any other.

Subscription Price $1.00 per Year.
A sample copy free. We are making a splendid
special offer to choir or clubs. Send for particulars.

FILLMORE BROS.,
141 W. 46th St., Cincinnati, O.,
or 40 Bible House, New York.

GROVES' DICTIONARY
OF
MUSIC AND MUSICIANS.

The only Complete Encyclopaedia of Music in
the English Language.

Bound in handsome Brown Cloth, Gilt Tops. Put up in boxes and
sold only in complete sets. This new edition includes the Index.

Price for 5 Volumes, (including Index,) $18.50.
Price for Index, - - - - - - $2.50.

Address THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILA.

SPECIAL EXERCISES IN
SCALE PLAYING,
With Particular Reference to the Development of
the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Fingers
of each Hand.

IN TWO BOOKS, EACH $1.00.

COMPOSED FOR PIANOFORTE BY
WILSON G. SMITH.

They are highly recommended by Dr. Wm. Mason and other
eminent teachers.

LANDON'S WRITING BOOK
FOR MUSIC PUPILS.

PRICE 50 CENTS.

This new book is a great advance on anything hereto-
fore published in this line. It gives a practical and
easily understood presentation of every available thing
in the notation of music. The book abounds in new
and ingenious features to interest the pupil. Every im-
portant subject is treated from so many sides that even
the dullest pupil can easily understand the subject under
consideration. It is thorough, clear in explanations
and helps, and particularly practical in the directions
with which it exhausts each fact presented. Any pupil
who faithfully works out its exercises will be a correct
and rapid reader of music, instrumental or vocal.

THEODORE PRESSER, Publisher,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

EASY METHOD
FOR THE PIANOFORTE
BY
A. ROMMEL.

PRICE $1.00.

This Beginners' Instruction Book is a thor-
oughly practical work. Every exercise has been
tested for years in actual practice. It contains
everything a progressive teacher might desire.
There is nothing antiquated, nothing difficult,
nothing dull.

JUST ISSUED.

School of Four-Hand Playing,
VOLUME II.
COMPILED BY THEO. PRESSER.

PRICE $1.00.

CONTENTS.—Reinecke, Christmas Eve; Lackner, Marche
Celebre; Loefflerhofer, Dance Hongroise; Schubert, Op. 18;
Mendelssohn, Scherzo; Mazas; Song of Chopin, Funeral
March; Schubert, Marche Heroique.

SELECTED OCTAVE STUDIES
FOR
Equal Development of Both Hands.
WITH
PREPARATORY STUDIES BY THEO. PRESSER.

PRICE 75 CENTS.

These Octave Studies are of medium difficulty, and selected from
Spindler, Hunsen, Bertini, Kullak, etc. They are of great educa-
tional value.

TEACHERS'
POCKET METRONOME.

SIMPLE, CONVENIENT, NEAT, AND INEXPENSIVE.

Price, Nickel-plated, 50 Cents, Net, Postpaid.

Giving the correct Metronomic Marks after the
Maelzel Standard, together with the
True Tempos of all the Dances.

These instruments have been especially manufactured
for THE ETUDE, and will be sent as a premium to any one
sending two subscribers. Address

THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

THIRTY
HOME RULES FOR MUSIC STUDENTS.

Practical Advice, Hints, and Suggestions
for the Young.

BY HERMANN MOHR.
PRICE 5 CENTS EACH.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

PRICE $1.00.

A. ROMMEL.

This Beginners' Instruction Book is a thor-
oughly practical work. Every exercise has been
tested for years in actual practice. It contains
everything a progressive teacher might desire.
There is nothing antiquated, nothing difficult,
nothing dull.

JUST ISSUED.

School of Four-Hand Playing,
VOLUME II.
COMPILED BY THEO. PRESSER.

PRICE $1.00.

CONTENTS.—Reinecke, Christmas Eve; Lackner, Marche
Celebre; Loefflerhofer, Dance Hongroise; Schubert, Op. 18;
Mendelssohn, Scherzo; Mazas; Song of Chopin; Funeral
March; Schubert, Marche Heroique.

[Note: The right column contains repeated material due to the scanning of two adjoining pages; the following completes the right column items.]

EASY METHOD FOR THE PIANOFORTE
BY A. ROMMEL.
PRICE $1.00.

This Beginners' Instruction Book is a thoroughly practical work.
Every exercise has been tested for years in actual practice. It contains
everything a progressive teacher might desire. There is nothing anti-
quated, nothing difficult, nothing dull.

JUST ISSUED.
School of Four-Hand Playing,
VOLUME II.
COMPILED BY THEO. PRESSER.
PRICE $1.00.

SELECTED OCTAVE STUDIES
FOR
Equal Development of Both Hands.
WITH
PREPARATORY STUDIES BY THEO. PRESSER.
PRICE 75 CENTS.

TEACHERS'
POCKET METRONOME.
SIMPLE, CONVENIENT, NEAT, AND INEXPENSIVE.
Price, Nickel-plated, 50 Cents, Net, Postpaid.

Giving the correct Metronomic Marks after the
Maelzel Standard, together with the
True Tempos of all the Dances.

These instruments have been especially manufactured
for THE ETUDE, and will be sent as a premium to any one
sending two subscribers. Address
THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

THIRTY
HOME RULES FOR MUSIC STUDENTS.
Practical Advice, Hints, and Suggestions
for the Young.
BY HERMANN MOHR.
PRICE 5 CENTS EACH.
THEODORE PRESSER,
1708 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

[Bottom margin contains printer's smudge and faint advertising lines.]

Description of non-textual images:
- The page header contains decorative rules and a centered title "THE ETUDE." with the page number 118 at the top left.
- A vertical column rule divides the page into three main columns. Small ornamental lines and thin rules separate different advertisements. There are decorative typefaces and bold display type in many headings, but no photographic images or illustrations on the page.
LATEST PUBLICATIONS.

THEODORE PRESSER, CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

GRADE I.—X.

ORDER BY
NUMBER ONLY.
1857. Vollmann, Op. 27, No. 5. Folk Song. Grade II.
This is taken from MacDougall's Studies in Melody Playing, Vol. II. It demands a slow delivery and a very sustained, firm tone. Impassioned declamation is not appropriate.
1858. Tchaikowsky, Op. 39, No. 17. German Song. Grade II.
A very graceful piece in 3/4 time. It should not be played too fast. The refrain is marked dolce in the original.
1859. Gurlitt, C. Op. 140, No. 7. Festive Dance. Grade II.
A spirited and little piece, rich in opportunity for phrasing, expression, and light, brilliant playing.
1860. Schytte, L., Op. 89, No. 12. Good Night. Grade II.
An easy, graceful song to the child. Both hands are employed in the whole; the left is interesting and attractive.
1861. MacDougal, H. C. Christmas Pastorale. Grade II.
This little piece is very good. Work in this piece will be of value in its emotional and tonal expression. It must be studied to be properly rendered.
1862. Von Wilm, N., Op. 81, No. 13. Cradle Song. Grade II.
This is a pretty and appropriate accompaniment for the simple and effective air; marked dolce throughout. A pleasing little study in finger-work.
1863. Kavanagh, J. Andante. Grade II.
Thoroughly musical melody. It is easy and effective, and worthy of hearty commendation. Melodic and accompaniment are both interesting to the player.
1864. Hummel, J. Romance. Grade II.
A good study in cantabile playing. A broad minute theme is varied; figures of moderate technical exigency. Very pretty.
1865. Kalkbrenner, F., Op. 42, No. 12. Evening Bell. Grade II.
This is an appropriate Grade II piece in its expression, simple, effective, and pretty. It will make an excellent study for pupils.
1866. Tchaikowsky, Op. 39, No. 18. Italian Song. Grade II.
A bit of musical fun, with a bright and piquant melody. It is of interest to the young student.
1867. Wilm, N. V., Op. 81, No. 2. Hilarity. Grade II.
Varied and spirited little practice. Figures in both hands are pretty to each other. Bright and lively in style. Much admired.
1868. Lichner, H. Op. 24. Scherzo. Grade II.
A good scherzo by a popular writer. Short passages and accents should be observed without over-stressing. The scale passages are not hard but show skillful writing.
1869. Bohm, Op. 169. Little Love Song. Grade II.
A charming little song, graceful and pretty, with an easy accompaniment. It is a desirable study for children.
1870. Schytte, L. Op. 89, No. 11. Fairy Tale. Grade II.
Somewhat on the tarantella style, giving practice in light, rapid passages. The piece offers opportunities for good finger-work.
1871. Lamothe, Georges, Op. 262. Estudiantina (Cap. Espagnol). Grade IV.
A characteristic piece of Spanish rhythm. The faint air lends expression and piquant character for light advanced study.
1872. Vilbac, Renaud de. Valse des Merveilles. Grade V.
The piece requires moderately advanced techniq[ue] for correct performance.
1873. Ten Brink, Jules, Op. 12. In the Forest. Grade IV.
The melody is graceful and the left hand accompaniment is sustained and simple.
1874. Chaminade, C. Op. 24. The Dragon Flies. Grade V.
A smart and bright little piece which affords opportunities for finger legato and staccato combined.

IX.

ORDER BY
NUMBER ONLY.
1875. Delahaye, L. L. Op. 18. Valse. Grade V.
This is not hackneyed either in melody or style. There is originality about it, and fine work for phrasing and expression.
1876. Colomer, B. M. Serenade Galante. Grade V.
Another interesting piece for both teacher and pupil. The style is elevated, and the effects good throughout.
1877. Vilbiao, Renaud de. Pompadour (Gavotte). Grade IV.
A quaint gavotte, furnishing a first-class study in rhythm. The piece is pleasing and easy of execution.
1878. Thomse, Francis. Minuet. Grade III.
A little piece of excellent construction. It is a suitable study for the younger pupils and will be appreciated by teachers.
1879. Delahaye, L. L. Op. 16. La Ronde du Serail. Grade III.
A charming piece in a bright style. It affords good practice in the use of both hands simultaneously and in bringing out a melody.
1880. Goddard, Benjamin. Op. 14. Les Hirondelles. Grade IV.
A rather old theme in minor, with occasional modulations. It is a pretty exercise in melody.
1881. Chaminade, C. Op. 35. Fileuse (Etude de Concert, No. 3). Grade V.
A brilliant concert etude; requiring well-controlled action and flexible fingers. Both hands are engaged in sparkling runs.
1882. Fillmore, T. H. Barcarolle. Grade IV.
A thoroughly musical piece. The running accompaniment is of the left hand. It is a delightful piece for study and recital.
1883. Reed, Chas. H. Gavotte a la Francaise. Grade IV.
A pleasant duet in a bright style and charming in form.
1884. Rathbun, T. G. Elin Dance. Grade IV.
A very attractive and interesting piece. Popular and acceptable for study and recital.
1885. Moller, Carl. Op. 1, No. 1. Menuet. Grade III.
An old style, but effective, and giving good practice for rhythm and form.
1886. Moller, Carl. Op. 1, No. 2. Caprice. Grade III.
A graceful little piece, full of life and fine melodic feeling.
1887. May, Walter E. Entre Nous. Grade III.
A bright, effective little piece. It can be found among studio works of the lighter nature.
1888. Presser, Theo. Octave Studies.
These studies are for the advanced pupil and are of value for thorough technique and control. They develop the hand in power and evenness of tone.
1889. Smith, Wilson G. Op. 56. Book I. Special Exercises in Scales Playing, with particular reference to the development of the 3d and 4th, and 5th fingers of each hand.
This book contains particular exercises of technical importance to the pianist.

ORDER BY
NUMBER ONLY.
1890. Geibel, Adam. Morning Time March. Grade II.
A melodious piece of a correct marketable nature, and will be a favorite with teachers for its good style.
1891. Geibel, Adam. The Jolly Picnickers. Grade II.
A favorite after the order of Heller. Graceful and pretty.
1892. Geibel, Adam. In the Shadow. Grade II.
An easy and pretty song to accompany. It is sweet in style and will be useful in Grade II work.
1893. Geibel, Adam. Eventide Reverie. Grade III.
A tender and expressive composition. Students will find it attractive and useful.
1894. Geibel, Adam. Fairies' Serenade. Grade II.
A small, dainty piece; pretty in harmony and effect. It should be carefully studied for touch and phrasing.
1895. May, Walter H. Une Petite Rhapsodie. Grade I.
A short and graceful study, effective and pleasing. The broken chords are easy and the accompaniment is light.
1896. Bohm, Carl. Op. 309. The Hunter's Call. Grade VI.
A characteristic piece by a popular writer. The chorus effect is well managed, and the theme is striking.
1897. Lebreton, O. Op. 33. Fidelio. Grade IV.
A short caprice, full of charm and a bright style.
1898. Blumenreich, A. Spinning Song. Grade II.
An excellent, easy, bright and taking little piece; admirable as accompaniment in the first hands.
1899. Cheeswright, F. Song—One of Its Own. Grade II.
A simple song with a pretty melody for moderate companions. It is not difficult and will be useful in Grade II.
1400. Goerbler, R. I Think of Thee. Grade III.
A popular piece, well adapted for Grade II. It contains good expression and interesting harmony.
1401. Godard, Benj. Op. 68, No. 6. Marcel (The Huguenot). Grade V.
A brilliant study for the advanced pupil. The figures are clear and good.
1402. Carpenter, T. L., Leslie. A Twilight. Meditation. Grade III.
This is a very graceful, expressive piece that will be charming to teachers and pupils.
1403. Presser, Theo. School of Four-hand Playing. Grade III.
A convenient collection of duets for four hands, arranged for teaching, practice and recital. The pieces are of practical value to teachers and students.
1404. Leschetizky, A. Op. 88. No. 3. Dance Hongroise. Four Hands. Grade III.
A brilliant piece for two young players, giving good practice in staccato playing. Instructive, but not difficult.
1405. Baumfelder, F. Op. 161, No. 5. Minstrel Song. Four Hands. Grade III.
A bright, effective piece that will be much used in the schools. Excellent in tone and style.
1406. Schubert, F. Op. 27, No. 1. Marche Heroique. Four Hands. Grade III.
A short and effective march for pupils. It is popular and effective.
1407. Schubert, F. Op. 78. Minute Four Hands. Grade III.
A short piece, bright and pretty, well suited for examinations and recitals.

[Note: The page image is a scanned newspaper-style catalog page showing three printed columns of small type listing musical publications with numbers, titles, authors, grades and brief descriptive notes. There are no photographic images; decorative type and lines separate columns and headings. The page is slightly aged with speckling and marginal darkening from the scan.]
LATEST PUBLICATIONS.

THEODORE PRESSER, 1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

GRADE I—X.

ORDER BY
NUMBER ONLY.

1408. Lachner, Fr. Op. 118. Marche
Celebre. Four hands. Grade III.
This march will find many admirers. There are ex-
cellent points, both of teaching and salon character,
and will recommend itself to all who use it. 35

1409. Chopin, F. Op. 65. Funeral March.
Four hands. Grade III.
The famous Chopin "Funeral March" is here
presented with the usual accompaniments in a way
to make it effective.
The solemn opening theme and exquisite melody
which form the trio will delight all who study them.
The above six numbers are from Grade III, School
of Four-hand Playing, and can thus be obtained
separately. 35

1410. Braungardt, Fr. Op. 7. In Light
Mood. Grade IV.
A good teaching piece; the figure played by the
right requires evenly-developed and flexible fingers.
It will also rend a light, well-controlled arm. 35

1411 Mihalyi, L. Op. 4. A Storm on Lake
Platten. Grade V.
Work in two-finger exercise, light wrist tremolo,
heavy chords, and rapid arpeggio playing. The trip-
lets, long continued, of full chords at the close, will
test the player's endurance. 50

1412. McDonough, F. J. In Dreamland.
Grade IV.
This piece is to be heartily recommended. It will
develop a light, delicate touch, and can be used to
teach phrasing.
It will also please, because of its mellowness and
graceful rhythm. 50

1413. Goerdeler, Richard. Summer Morn-
ing. Grade III.
A bright piece of music, tasteful and graceful. It
will interest and is very useful in teaching both
melody and accompaniment. 50

1414. Webb, F. R. Op. 65. Verona
(Gavotte). Grade IV.
One of the best of this writer's pieces. A fine study
in arm and wrist touch. It is a musicianly, and the
chromatic passages of chords add a touch of piquancy
to the effect. The teacher will be pleased with it. 60

1415. Smith, Wilson G. Op. 54, No. 1.
Spinning Wheel. Grade V.
A waltz that may be used for concert purposes.
It will require considerable technic for its proper per-
formance, and will show to advantage the work put
up into it. At the same time it is musically interesting
to the pupil. The left hand has an opportunity to
acquire equalizer and accompagnato. 60

1416. Ernst, Theo. O. Emilyenne. Valse
Caprice. Grade V.
This is another well worthy of concert use. Its
very different form the preceding, although in the
same key (F sharp). An enchanting change to the
barcarolle forms in an interesting theme into which a
crisp staccato touch is brought into play. The piece
should be an every teacher's list. 75

1417. Spindler, F, Op. 249, No. 20.
Trumpeter's Serenade. Grade II.
A good two-page piece for younger pupils. Bright,
pretty, and instructive may be mentioned as its
characteristics. 20

1418. Swain, L. A. Op. 3, No. 1. Playful
Zephyr. Grade III.
Combines finger, hand, and arm touches and will be
of service for both teaching and salon use. The
themes are bright and the pieces is of good length —
neither too long nor too short. 30

1419. Wilm, N. Von. Op. 12, No. 3. Vil-
lage Musicians. Grade II.
These village musicians indulge in rather better
music than do some others we have heard of. This
is useful and pretty teaching for young pupils. 20

1420. Nurnberg, H. Op. 419. No. 2. Santa
Claus March. Grade II.
A good march; will help to cultivate musical taste
in young pupils. It is rather advanced for Grade II
in certain respects, requiring considerable fretting in
third and sixth players. 20

1421. Heins, Carl. Doll's Cradle Song.
Grade II.
A very pretty cradle song. The melody is bright
and given alternately to right and left hands. A good
piece to use in the early stages of teaching discriminat-
ive touch. 20

1422. Nurnberg, H. Op. 419, No. 1. Merry
Children's Dance. Grade II.
A sprightly waltz, within the technic of young
pupils, which when played up to tone will make the
eye sparkle. 20

1423. Heins, Carl. Dance of the Bears.
Grade II.
A jolly dance in two-four time in G minor. A
good study, and musical as well. 20

1424. Heins, Carl. Merriment. Grade II.
A well-named piece, as its character is jolly merr-
iment. This set of pieces, edited by H. C. MacDougal,
are annotated, and are to be commended for their
value in the easy grades. 20

1425. Northrop, Theo. H. Figure Roman-
tic. Grade III.
Rather difficult in some of its skips. It is odd in
rhythm and a good study in controlling the arm. 20

ORDER BY
NUMBER ONLY.

1426. Goerdeler; Rich. Sunset on the
Alps. Grade III.
Another of Goerdeler's taking pieces. Melodious,
fluent, and easy are its commendable features. 50

1427. Goerdeler, Rich. Columbian Galop.
Grade II.
A contribution to the reigning subject of patriotism
at this time. It will take. 50

1428. Rathbun, F. G. Romance. Grade
II.
A tuneful piece of a rather tender character. An
expanded accompaniment in the left hand will need
practice, and there are opportunities for phrasing and
study of expression. 25

1429. Smith, W. G. Op. 48, No. 3. 2d
Valse Caprice. Grade III.
A good study in light arm-and-wrist touches. Of a
good swinging rhythm. Interesting and easy. 50

1430. Grossheim, Jul. Op. 23, No. 9.
Morning Prayer. Grade II.
A delightful little melody, with a bit of chord play-
ing introduced as the second theme. Needs a light
accompaniment in left hand. 25

1431. Schaussel, W. Op. 9, No. 2. Cradle
Song. Grade II.
Another excellent piece from the same pen. 20

1432. Spindler, F. Op. 308, No. 33. In
Venice. Grade II.
Thrids to be played by the right hand while the left
plays a smooth accompaniment. Useful and pretty. 35

1433. Krug, D. Op. 348, No. 5. The Merry
Wanderer. Grade II.
A somewhat longer piece in the same set. Gives
practice in melody playing, scales, thirds, and sixths,
so that it may be called quite universal in its
nature. It is calculated to be of interest to the pupil
as well as instructive. 35

1434. Smith, W. G. Op. 56. Vesper
Chimes. Grade III.
This piece is a good study in the use of the damper
pedal. The theme is given out in chords which are
sustained while the same hand plays an embellish-
ment. A teaching piece, and throughout there are
excellent opportunities to become practice in its
proper use. The piece is one of which will become
popular among piano pupils. 75

1435. Smith, Wilson G. Op. 55, B. 2.
Special Excercises in Scale Play-
ing. Grade III.
We offer the first book of these studies some
time since. This book has the concluding volume.
Particular stress is laid upon the development of the
third, fourth, and fifth fingers, and the various
exercises are so conceived as to bear directly upon the
work in hand. They are by an eminent artist, and
cannot fail to be of great value. 1.00

1436. Goerdeler, R. Alpha Omega
Waltzes. Grade III.
A new set of waltzes which will catch the popular
taste. They are smooth, swingy, and tuneful. 65

1437. Goerdeler, R. Fairy Queen Polka.
Grade III.
Another piece by the same writer. It will also
take. 40

1438. Goerdeler, R. Columbian Galop
(Four Hands). Grade III.
An arrangement of the Columbian galop for two
players. It will fulfil its mission as a popular piece. 75

1439. Rathbun, F. G. Evening Song (Re-
verie). Grade III.
A piece destined to be popular because of its melody
and general style, while it contains no catches to
trouble the amateur player. At the same time it can
be used by the teacher with profit. 65

1440. Landon, Chas. W. Melodious Easy
Studies for Piano or Reed Organ.
These studies begin at the beginning and increase
gradually in difficulty. They are by a well-known
musician and teacher of long experience. This
would be the best series for the teacher who is
gradually and steadily working up a student who is
careful and desirous of a thorough method, combined
with an ideal charm of study. The pieces are both
musical and artistic. 1.00

1441. Wilm, N. Von. Op. 81, No. 4. Chil-
dren's Festival. Grade II.
A fine concert warmico, written more for children,
and many regret, musicians have failed in such
attempts. Here, however, is an interesting little work
which the teacher will find helpful and not too
vague, which is neither too light nor too insipid. Such
pieces should be treasured up. 20

1442. White, Otis R. The Conqueror's
Return. Grade III.
A bright march movement, animated and yet not
difficult. 25

1443. White, Otis R. Petite Barcarolle.
Grade III.
A narrowly good barcarolle movement, well worthy of
use. 25

1444. Hewitt, H. D. Barcarolle. Grade II.
A good exercise for wrist in left hand in playing
the repeated chords. A good study in rhythm and
phrasing. 25

ORDER BY
NUMBER ONLY.

1445. Hewitt, H. D. Melody in A flat.
Grade IV.
The melody is taken in octaves, while the same
hand plays an accompaniment of double-note, which
makes a rather difficult piece of work. It is also
valuable for its practice in syncopated rhythm. 35

1446. Hewitt, H. D. The Miller's Song.
Grade IV.
A good mill-wheel piece. Besides being valuable
from a teaching point of view, it is melodious and
interesting. 60

1447. Goddard, Benj. Op. 56. 2d Valse.
Grade IV.
A good waltz for concert use. It is by a good
author and contains many good points for the
student. The rhythms and melody need to be given
performance. It is revised and fingered by Dr. Wm.
Mason. 50

1448. Waddington, Edmund. Op. 20, No.
3. Gypsy Dance. Grade IV.
A good study in time, touch, and grouped arpeggio.
Besides being of good technical value, it is pleasing in
harmony and melody. Will be popular with pupils. 50

1449. Necke, Hermann. Op. 236, No. 4.
Sing, Birdie, Sing. Grade IV.
Beautiful in content, and a superior study in hand
and finger action, and for legato in runs of short
range. Peces of this class deserve a prominent
place. It should be used in graded class instruction. 80

1450. Johnson, G. S. The Merry Maiden
Polka. Grade IV.
Bright and brilliant, with a free rhythmic swing.
Abounds in runs, broken thirds, octaves, and chords.
The use of the pedal is carefully marked. 60

1451. Kavanaugh, Ignatius. Op. 12, No. 2.
Minuetto. Grade IV.
A thoroughly good composition, full of the
charm and grace which is decidedly attractive in
concert, and should make a special merit of the
student. 60

1452. Nurnberg, H. Op. 419, No. 3.
Little Character Sketch. Grade II.
Beautiful and very especially valuable as a
suitable study, and very especially useable in class.
Desirable pieces to be used in the first steps of
graceful touch and in the minor grade. Every be-
ginner should learn this unique charming little piece. 20

1453. Goerdeler, Richard. Champion
March. Grade IV.
Has the "snap and go" of a good march. As is
always the case in pieces by this composer, it is
popular and decidedly pleasing. Makes a good
study in octave playing in some of its passages.
Six-eight time, brilliant and charming. 60

1454. Geibel, Adam. Mignon Minuet.
Grade IV.
A rounded little dance that is tender and graceful.
Always has something to say, and will be considered
one of the favorites with the teacher. 35

1455. Goerdeler, Richard. Etude Waltz.
Grade V.
A delightful dance waltz by this popular writer.
Well adapted to the stage; will be very successful
everywhere. 60

1456. Streabbog, L. Paul and Virginia.
Waltz. Grade I.
A very simple waltz adapted to piano and organ.
The piece has been revised and arranged for plays. W.
A. with the addition. It is an excellent edition by a very first
piece for beginners. 20

1457. Handel, C. F. Sarabande. Grade III.
One of Handel's most beautiful pieces; the harmonies
are subtle simple. The execution possesses no diffi-
culty whatever. This piece will be found useful in
the first introduction of pupils to ancient contrapuntal
study. 20

1458. Goerdeler, Richard. Enterprise
Polka. Grade II.
This polka is bright and attractive for parlor con-
cert use. It has been dedicated, by permission, to Mr.
Rossini, publisher of the New York World. 35

1459. Josie Macdonald. June Polka.
Grade II.
An excellent dance composition, affording at the
same time a little practice in scale and arpeggio play-
ing. The rhythm is very clear and the composition is
easy to learn. A good value piece. 30

1460. Low, Jos. Slumber Song. Grade II.
This is an admirable teaching composition, finely
edited by the Pelman Co. Macdougal, and is really a
gem of its class. 20

1461. Patrick, H. W. Sequoia Gavotte.
Grade II.
This composition was selected to represent the
Fair in Cincinnati for the state of California. It
compares favorably with list of difficult, possessing great
originality, for which the composer was duly honored. 20

1462. Goerdeler, Rich. My Alpine Love.
A waltz-song, on the popular order, with a pleasing
melody ending with the recall of original is that
heard in the Swiss mountains. For a superior voice. 40

DESCRIPTION OF NON-TEXTUAL IMAGES:
The page is a black-and-white printed catalog sheet with the title "LATEST PUBLICATIONS." at the top, followed by the publisher's name and address "THEODORE PRESSER, 1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA." The page is laid out in three narrow columns filled with numbered listings of musical works, each entry showing the composer, opus or number, title, grade (I–V or higher), short descriptive notes about the piece, and a price in cents or dollars at the right of each entry. The typography is in an old-fashioned serif font, with headings bolded and slightly larger. The paper shows uneven darkening and scan artifacts around the edges, and several small specks and smudges consistent with an aged printed page. The overall look is that of a 19th-century music publisher's catalog.
THE ETUDE.                                                                                              121

"Instructive, Interesting, Entertaining."

THE
DEAN
LECTURES.
THIRD SEASON,
1893-4.

"History of Music," "Famous Symphonies," "Historic Masters,"
"Quartets and Their Works," "Classic and Romantic Schools,"
"Historic and Musical Places, Paint, and Travel, etc., etc."

For terms and dates address
FREDERIC DEAN, A. M.,
No. 9 East 17th Street, New York.

MADAME AL. PUPIN
WILL ACCEPT ARRANGEMENTS FOR RECITAILS ON THE
NEW JANKO KEYBOARD.

Permanent Address, 45 Broad Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

Madame Pupin gives her Recitals with a brief Lecture on the Ad-
vantages and Possibilities of the New Keyboard. Specially adapted
for Schools and Conservatories of Music. Highest testimonials and
prices for recitals sent on receipt of stamps.

DANA'S MUSICAL INSTITUTE
AND CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
WARREN, OHIO.

One of the oldest and most influential Schools of Music in North
America. Catalogue free.

JUNIUS DANA, Secretary.

STANDARD WORKS.

DANA'S PRACTICAL HARMONY ........................................ $1 00
DANA'S PRACTICAL THOROUGH-BASS ...............................
THE ART OF FINGERING ...............................................
NATIONAL SCHOOL FOR OPERATORS ...................................
PROGRESSIVE STUDIES FOR VIOLIN .................................
Address the Publisher.

DANA'S MUSICAL INSTITUTE,
WARREN, OHIO.

WM. KNABE & CO.
GRAND, SQUARE, AND UPRIGHT

PIANO - FORTES.

These Instruments have been before the Public for over
fifty years, and upon their excellence alone
have attained an
UNPURCHASED PRE-EMINENCE
Which establishes them as unequaled in tone, touch,
workmanship, and durability.

Every Piano Fully Warranted for 5 Years.

WM. KNABE & CO.,
22 and 24 E. Baltimore Street, BALTIMORE.
145 Fifth Ave., near 20th St., NEW YORK.
437 Pennsylvania Ave., WASHINGTON, D. C.

CHICAGO CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
AUDITORIUM BUILDING.

REGULAR SUMMER TERM OPENS JULY 9.

Private Lessons in All Departments.

SUMMER MUSIC EDUCATION
NORMAL
COURSE FOR STUDENTS.
Under the direction of
CALVIN P. CADDY and
FREDERICK GRANT GLEASON.

OBJECTS.

I. How to Develop the Child's Musical Nature as the Basis for
    All Future Study.

II. What Methods to Use, and When to Use Them.

III. How and What to Teach. Lectures on the Principles of
     Teaching; Practical Instruction in the best methods of
     Teaching PIANO, VOICE and THEORY; Model Lessons and
     Clinics.

IV. Practical Work in Singing and Piano for Teachers.

V. Methods of Teaching in Public and Private Schools.

VI. The Training of Sight Reading and Ear Training.

VII. Recitals and Concerts.

Full particulars and application to
SAMUEL KAYZER, Director,
AUDITORIUM BUILDING, CHICAGO.

PIANO CONVERSATIONS.

Miss Amy Fay desires to announce that she is ready to receive en-
gagements for Piano Conversations next season. Miss Fay promises
to give programs presenting the best work of the standard and the
modern composers, selecting a wide field of musical literature,
which she will present in a practical and suggestive manner. Terms
on application.

MISS AMY FAY,
33 West 31st Street, New York.

HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Doc.,
328 South 38th Street,
PHILADELPHIA.

LESSONS BY MAIL (in Harmony, Counterpoint,
and Composition).
ORGAN OPENINGS, Etc.

MR. ALBERT W. BORST,
Teacher of the
ORGAN — AND — PIANOFORTE
2602 Hamilton St., Philadelphia, Pa.
No Charge for Organ practice, and full arrangements made for
students studying for the profession.

EDWARD BAXTER PERRY
CONCERT PIANIST AND LECTURER
Lecture-Recitals at Schools and Musical Societies a Specialty.
Address: Care of Eilers & Co., 46 Washington St., Boston.
Mr. Perry gives Lectures and Recitals and will be in Boston
and vicinity during the coming season.

JAMES M. TRACY,
LEIPZIG AND WEIMAR, 1882-82 (?)  [text probably 1882-82?]
PIANIST, TEACHER, AND WRITER,

Terms $60.00 for twenty-one hour-lessons, $80.00 for twenty half-hour lessons.
17 Fort Avenue, or Chickering's, 152 Tremont St., BOSTON.

MR. PERLEE V. JERVIS,
TEACHER OF PIANOFORTE
MASON'S "TOUCH AND TECHNIC."

Studio 6, Carnegie Hall, Tuesdays and Fridays,
141 Montague St., Brooklyn, Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays,
New York.

THE
LONDON COLLEGE OF MUSIC,
FOUNDED 1877. INCORPORATED 1892.
For Musical Education and Examination in
Practical and Theoretical Music.
GREAT MARLBOROUGH ST., LONDON, W., ENG.

BOARD OF EXAMINERS FOR AMERICA
AND CANADA.
Prof. CHAS. A. E. HARRISS, Organist of the Cathedral, Montreal.
R. DOWARD, Esq., Toronto, Canada.
HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Doc., University of Pennsylvania, Phila.
WALTER H. HALL, F.R.C.O., Organist of Trinity Church, Pittsburg.
THOS. B. HALSEY, Organist, New York.
Prof. SAMUEL R. PERRIN, Mus. B., etc., Chicago.
E. J. H. BARDELL, Esq., Toronto.
AUSTIN C. PETTITT, Mus. Doc., Chairman, New York.
EDMUND A. HOPKINS, Mus. D., etc., Montreal.
C. S. PARSONS, Prof. of Music, etc., Boston.
J. D. H. SAMS, Mus. B., etc., Winnipeg.
AND OTHER DISTINGUISHED TEACHERS.

The Organizing Secretary for America:
DR. STOCKS HAMMOND,
27 and 29 North Fifth Street, READING, PA.

MISS CLARA B. HARRISON,
TEACHER OF PIANO
(Mason System, etc. Technic),
1019 G Street, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.

SUMMER STUDY AT ASBURY PARK.
MR. LOUIS ARTHUR RUSSELL announces a Summer School of Music
and Oratory at Asbury Park, N. J. (on the sea shore) which will
begin July 3 and continue six weeks. The advantages of Asbury
Park as a summer resort are well known. Special attention will be
given to Vocal Culture, Artistic Singing, the preparation of stu-
dents for multiple and concert work, and for State and College Ex-
aminations, also to Class Instruction, Private Lessons and Recitals.
All branches taught by competent instructors. For particulars ad-
dress MR. L. A. RUSSELL, Asbury Park, N. J.

TEACHERS WANTED
Our Board of Examiners can furnish first-class teachers for all
the principal cities of the United States. Address
A. J. GOODRICH,
Lock Box 976, Chicago, Ill.

NORMAL MUSIC SESSION
IN CHICAGO.

Mr. A. J. Goodrich will conduct a Special Normal Session of five
weeks, from July 3d to Aug. 7th.

Special attention to Methods in Harmony and Composition, Voice-Culture,
Recitation and Drill, and the new Theory of Interpretation appli-
cable to Public Speaking and Teaching.

A. J. GOODRICH,
Lock Box 976, Chicago.

SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL.
TERM OF SIX WEEKS, BEGINNING JULY 9, 1894.
UNDER THE PERSONAL INSTRUCTION OF PERLEE V. JERVIS,
AT ESSEX, CONN.

Special Courses for teachers in Mason's Touch and Technic, on the
Kohler and Chase Pianos. Also Vocal, Violin, Harmony, Organ and
Harmony for Teachers. Tuition reduced and rooms arranged for
the convenience of teachers and pupils who remain during the
whole term. Students will be given ample opportunity for prac-
tice and study, besides hearing daily and nightly recitals and in-
struction. Send for circulars and full particulars to
PERLEE V. JERVIS,
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL, NEW YORK CITY.

[Small illustration of a building with trees and people in front]
(Under the illustration)
WALTER HALL
OBERLIN CONSERVATORY OF Music

With a Large Faculty of Superior Instructors, and
a splendid building for its exclusive use, the Oberlin
Conservatory offers unusual advantages to students of
Music. 699 students last year. Total expenses for one
year's study (36 weeks) has not exceeded $300. Two
terms begin Sept. 18th, Jan. 3d, and April 1st.
For full particulars, catalogue and harmony in any of its
branches, address
E. P. RICH, Director,
OBERLIN, OHIO.

UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MUSIC,
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.

A First-Class Musical Education Furnished
A Faculty of Experienced Teachers
Exceptional Advantages for Hearing Music.
School Conducted according to University
Standards.

Address for Catalogue,
A. A. STANLEY, A.M.,
DIRECTOR.

MISS CLARA B. HARRISON ad appears again near top right.

TEACHERS WANTED section repeated.

SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL (another small ad showing terms and Perlee V. Jervis).

(The page is primarily advertisements and announcements for music teachers, schools, and related services. Many names, addresses, and short descriptions of courses, terms, and instructional emphases appear throughout the page. Several ads refer to summer terms and normal teacher-training courses. The London College of Music ad lists a board of examiners and gives an organizing secretary address in Reading, Pa.)

Description of the non-textual image:
A black-and-white engraving or woodcut of a substantial three-story institutional building set in a park-like landscape. The building has multiple gables and a tall central portion with a cupola or small tower. Trees and shrubbery surround the structure; there are several figures of people in the foreground and a pathway or lawn leading up to the building. The overall composition suggests a conservatory or college building on a campus; the caption identifies it as "WALTER HALL" of the Oberlin Conservatory of Music.
123                                      THE ETUDE.

Arthur P. Schmidt,
154 TREMONT ST., BOSTON, MASS.,

MUSIC PUBLISHER,
SOLE AGENT IN THE UNITED STATES FOR
Henry Litolf, Brunswick, Germany; Edition Ohanet
(Violin Music), and the Vienna Conservatory
Edition of the
PIANOFORTE CLASSICS.

NEW BALLADS BY FAVORITE ENGLISH COMPOSERS.
Barnes, Leonard.
Gondolier's Serenade..............................................50
Bevan, Frederick.
Taken in Tow.........................................................50
Blumenthal, Jacques.
A Wish That Understands........................................50
Caldicott, Alfred J.
Yester-night.............................................................50
Carrington, Wm.
The Sweet Hour........................................................50
A Seat at a Table.....................................................50
A Rose and a Thorn................................................50
Home Across the Ocean........................................50
The Power of Forgiveness....................................50
Capel, J. K.
A Sea King...............................................................50
Hard to be King......................................................50
Deacon, Charles
There is a Star.........................................................50
Lovers to the Last....................................................50
Kemery, Valentine.
The Bride's Bridge................................................50
When You Recoil.....................................................50
Hartey, W.
Evangeline...............................................................50
Hutchinson, Thomas.
Silver Shadows......................................................50
The Love I Bear to Thee.....................................50
In Fair Lorraine......................................................50
Jones, Hartwell.
Voice of the Ocean................................................50
King, Oliver.
Visions and Voices.................................................50
Knight, Joseph P.
Sheltered...............................................................50
Lane, Gerald.
The Crown of Life.................................................50
My Heart and Thine..............................................50
If Ever.................................................................50
Lath, H. S. Ellsot.
The Golden Hope.................................................50
Nocturne, Love Song............................................50
Lennox, Lindsay.
An Old Time Song...............................................50
Lloyd, C. F. Francis.
My Lady Caroline................................................50
Sugg and Sargent..................................................50
Sonnets and Songs................................................50
When Love's Afar................................................50
The Violet Finger................................................50
The Silent Courier..............................................50
A Song of the Harbor........................................50
Newton, Everard.
The Holy Shrine..................................................50
Pinnell, Mrs.
The Dream Song...............................................50
Ponte, Henry.
This and That......................................................50
Foster, Henry.
The Broken Heart..............................................50
Rossetti, John L.
Look and Live.......................................................50
Rossini, and Lurie...............................................50
Ruth, John.
At Sea.................................................................50
St. Germain, B.
Home, Sweet Home...........................................50
Sullivan, F. S.
The Ocean's Bride...............................................50
Talbot, Howard.
The Soldier's Farewell.....................................50
The Breeze of Spring......................................50
Vernes, Conte.
Spring's Dream................................................50
Welling, Marcus.
The Harbor Light..............................................50
White, Maude Valerie.
A Mother's Song..............................................50

Published for High or Low Voice.

ANY OF THESE SONGS SENT ON SELECTION IF DESIRED.

Complete Graded Catalogues Sent Free upon Application.
Mail Orders solicited and promptly filled to all parts of the Country.

ESTABLISHED 1856.
Our Factory is the Home of the Seven-Octave Organ.

It originated with us, and we brought it to perfection.
Don't confuse it with the cheap imitations
that flood the market. Send for
Price and Catalogue.

LAWRENCE ORGAN MFG. CO.,
320 South Tenth St., Easton, Pa.

JUST THE THING
TO PRESERVE
YOUR COPIES OF THE ETUDE.

THE ETUDE BINDER.

It is simple but complete, cheap but durable,
and beautiful in appearance.
It has a solid wooden back, which always keeps it
in shape, and it does not mutilate the contents.
The copies are instantly but securely bound by the
tin slabs which run the length of the periodical, and yet
can be removed at pleasure.
Each Binder holds twelve copies, or a full year's sub
scription, of the Etude.
Price, Postpaid, $1.00.

ADDRESS PUBLISHER,
THEO. PRESSER,
1708 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Portraits of Great Musicians.
LIFE SIZE, 22 x 28 INCHES.
Price $1.00. Postage and Tube, 10 cts. Extra.
$5.00, with Frame, Antique Oak.
Packed to go by Express at purchaser's charge.
The following are now ready: —
BEETHOVEN, MENDELSSOHN, MOZART,
WAGNER, HANDEL, CHOPIN, LISZT,
SCHUBERT, AND HAYDN.
OTHERS TO FOLLOW.
The elegant portraits have for the greater satisfaction
been executed in a more finished manner. The paper is fine,
the finish rich, and the expression distinct. Suitable for the
drawing room, studio, music room or parlor.
Address THEO. PRESSER, PHILADELPHIA.

DO NOT WEAR YOUR MUSIC OUT BY
CARRYING IT IN A MUSIC ROLL.

This SATCHET is the very latest and
most convenient manner of carrying
music, and does not necessitate the roll-
ing of it. It is superseding all others on
the market.
Made of Smooth-Grain Leather, un-
lined, Assorted Colors, price $1.50.
DISCOUNT TO THE PROFESSION.
THEO. PRESSER, PHILA., PA.

SPECIAL NOTICES.

Notice for this column inserted at 5 cents a word for one insertion,
payable in advance. Copy must be received by the 20th of the
previous month to insure publication in the next number.

MISS C. E. SHIMER WILL GIVE INSTRUC-
tions in Dr. Wm. Mason's method, "Touch and
Technic," to teachers and advanced students during the
summer months, from June 6th to Sept. 21st, in Allein-
town, Pa. Address Union Hall Seminary, Jamaica, N. Y.

TEN DOLLARS BUYS TEACHER'S TECH-
nicon, good as new. Address F. S. Foster, 80 Ash-
land Place, Brooklyn.

WANTED—A LADY OF FIFTEEN YEARS'
experience, wishing to secure the benefit of a
change of climate for the summer months, would like
to organize a class in either voice or piano at a summer
resort. Has had very considerable success in
teaching the adult voice, both in the voice of children and
adults; graduate of the Boston Conservatory of Music.
Best of references. Address 512 E. Columbus Ave.,
Bellefontaine, Ohio.

LADY OF FIFTEEN YEARS' EXPERIENCE,
also sings beautifully; studied Mason's and
Sherwood's Technic, also Carpi's Vocal Method, de-
sires position as teacher of piano or voice in Western
Conservatory. Best references. Address F. M. S.,
Box 88, Astoria, Ill.

SITUATION WANTED.—YOUNG LADY, GRAD-
uate of Broad St. Conservatory of Music, possessing
highly recommendable talents as pianist and teacher, desires
situation in school or seminary; willing to assume
charge of music department in some compensated
and comfortable home. Can furnish best of references
as to character and ability. Address, giving full par
ticulars, Miss L. W., care of Broad St. Conservatory
of Music, 1301 South Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa.

THE DAVIS SPRING BACK CHAIR COMBINES
all the advantages of chairs of this kind ever made.
Persons whose occupations necessitate long sitting,
whether at the piano, desk, typewriter, or sewing
machine, will find the needed comfort by using this
chair. Cures weak backs and prevents round shoulders.
It is strongly constructed; is handsome in style, and
cheap. Price, $2.50. Send for catalogue giving all details.
Address THE DAVIS SPRING BACK CHAIR CO.,
1300 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.

THE NEW SCALE "CROWN" PIANO IS
meeting with general success. Several of the leading
houses of the large cities have recently taken the
agency for these excellent instruments, and it is safe to
say that they can now be found in all the leading cities
of the Union. A very superior make and finish, and the
instruments are durable. They are warranted in every
respect. Send for pamphlet and terms. Headquarters
for Northern Illinois, 113 South Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill.

THE HARMONIC ORGAN—TWENTY-FOUR
stops, each an octave; absolutely pure in tone; en-
ables the ordinary keyboard to be used; enables the performer
to play the true tones, where he has hitherto been unable.
Address, with orders and particulars, THE HARMONIC
ORGAN CO., 580 Seventh St., Auburn Park,
Chicago, Ill.

[End of page content]

Descriptions of the non-textual images:
- Upright organ image (center top): A small engraved illustration of a compact upright reed/pipe organ with a decorative top panel and a short keyboard of roughly two octaves. The cabinet shows a raised back panel with carved ornamentation and a visible music rest above the keys. The organ rests on short bracketed feet and is drawn in dark shading with wood-grain and shadow details to indicate a polished wooden finish.

- Etude Binder image (center lower): A small engraving of an open book-like binder standing upright on a surface. The binder shows a solid wooden back and a front cover folded open; inside are neatly bound sheets of music visible, and thin metal or tin slabs along the binder's spine area that secure the music. The scene includes a couple of loose sheets and what appears to be a key or small object lying beside the binder, rendered with shading to suggest three-dimensional form.

- Satchel image (top right): A rectangular leather satchel with a single stiff handle attached to the top. The bag has a long horizontal flap fastened by two buckles or straps on the front; stitching and a slightly pebbled (smooth-grain) leather texture are indicated by the engraving's shading. The satchel is shown closed, flat-bottomed, and proportioned to carry rolled or folded sheet music.