Gardner-Webb University
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University

The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957                                        John R. Dover Memorial Library

9-1-1890

Volume 08, Number 09 (September 1890)

Theodore Presser


Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude

[small multicolored circular ribbon icon] Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Fine Arts Commons, History Commons, Liturgy and Worship Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons


Recommended Citation
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 08, No. 09. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, September 1890. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/342


This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.

Description of non-textual image:
A small multicolored circular ribbon/medal icon appears next to the phrase "Part of the". The icon consists of a round center with red, blue, and yellow segments and a short ribbon tail beneath, resembling a stylized award badge.
THE ETUDE

VOL. VIII. PHILADELPHIA, PA., SEPTEMBER, 1890. NO. 9.

THE ETUDE.
PHILADELPHIA, PA., SEPTEMBER, 1890.

A Monthly Publication for the Teachers and Students of Music.

Subscription Rates, $1.50 Per Year (payable in advance).
Single Copies, 15 cents.
The courts have decided that all subscribers to newspapers are held responsible until arrearages are paid and their papers are ordered to be discontinued.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, PHILADELPHIA, PA.
Editors.
W. S. B. MATTHEWS, JOHN S. VAN CLEVE,
JOHN C. WELCHER, R. E. AYRES,
MISS ELLEN D. TREMAIN.
Managing Editor, THEODORE PRESSER.
(Entered at Philadelphia Post Office as Second-class Matter.)

The management of the journal during the absence of Mr. Presser on his European trip, will be placed in the hands of Charles W. Landon. He has been a regular contributor to The Etude for a number of years. He will have exclusive control of the journal for the months of July, August and September. The regular editors will continue their work in the same manner. The contributors and correspondents will, we hope, continue to send in during the summer months matter for the journal.

Mr. Landon's work will be that which has heretofore been done personally by Mr. Presser, viz., the revising and accepting of manuscripts for the journal.

MUSICAL ITEMS.

[All matter intended for this Department should be addressed to
MRS. ELLEN D. TREMAIN, Box 2920, New York City.]

HOME.

The season of Seidl concerts at Brighton Beach will end on September 7th.

Walter E. Pritchard has just been engaged to teach piano in the Chicago Musical College.

New Hampshire held its first M. T. A., in conjunction with the music festival at Wolfboro' recently.

Mrs. Albert G. Thies, the tenor, is connected with the Summer School of Music at Avon-by-the-Sea.

The Emma Noyes Grand English Opera Company will open its season at Denver, Col., on August 18th.

The New Jersey State Music Teachers' Association will hold its second annual meeting in next December.

Mr. Seidl will give a series of orchestral concerts at Madison Square Garden as soon as the Brighton Beach season is over.

Xavier Schoenberg, the composer and pianist, has been paying America a visit. He will return in the winter and make an extended tour of the country.

Dr. H. L. Hadley, who is a well-known contributor to The Etude, will succeed Dr. Carl Merz as Director of the Musical Department of Wooster University, Ohio.

MME. ALMA ALHAIZA, prima donna of French and Italian opera, will head a company that intends making an extended tour of the United States and Canada next winter.

The season of English opera at the Harlem Opera House will open on October 15th, under Gustav Hinrichs, director. Mr. Hinrichs promises Weber's "Sylvana" for the inaugural.

Mr. FRANK VAN DER STUCKEN, the New York conductor and composer, enjoyed quite a triumph at a recent Gurschen concert in Cologne, where several of his compositions were given.

Mr. H. E. KREHBIEL'S "Review of the New York Musical Season of 1889-'90" has been published. It includes this year a large number of critical and historical essays on works presented.

The one hundredth night of the Strauss season at Madison Square Garden occurred on August 25th. A new ballet, "The Birth of the Waltz," was added to the programme, and choruses by one hundred and fifty voices contributed the spice of variety to the programme.

Mr. JULIUS KLAUSER, of Milwaukee, has just issued a book entitled "The Systematic and the Centralization of the Tonal System." Although scientific, the work is popular enough to adapt itself to the general public as well.

CHARLES KOELLING, the composer of "La Chasse infernale" and "La Chasse de Lion," is spending the summer in Germany. He returns in the fall to his home in Boston. He expects to produce his new opera while abroad.

The fourth season of the New York concerts of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, Arthur Nikisch, conductor, will begin at Chickering Hall on November 11th. The remaining dates are December 9th, January 13th and February 24th.

Mr. JOHN TOWER, who was one of the delegates from England to the Philadelphia meeting of the M. T. N. A. in 1889, has located in Indianapolis as a teacher of vocal culture and lecturer on musical subjects. He is now booking lecture engagements for his fall tour.

Mr. OVIDE MUSIN is playing with great success in the United States. He has organized an excellent company for his next season in America, and will open the same at Tarrytown-on-the-Hudson, under the auspices of the Washington Irving Club, on October 8th. Miss Annie Louise Tanner is again the company's soprano.

A Symphony Orchestra, of about sixty players, has recently been organized in Providence, R. I., with Mr. Robert Bonner as conductor. Three concerts will be given during the season, with eminent artists as soloists. Providence has long been noted for the excellence of what its best musical men and women have done for art, and this organization promises to sustain that reputation.

HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Dr., Professor of Music in the University of Pennsylvania, and organist of the Arch Street Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia, has also been elected Professor of Theory and Literature of Music in the National Conservatory of Music, New York City. He still retains his position in Philadelphia, and his new connections will give him opportunity to extend his influence in musical education.

FOREIGN.

RHEINHARDT will soon return to London after an absence of twelve years.

SAINT-SAËNS is engaged in revising Gluck's "Orpheus" from the original.

DR. VON BÜLOW may take the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra to London next season.

BERNARD STAVENHAGEN has been appointed Court pianist to the Emperor of Germany.

HERR HENSCHEL'S next London season of symphony concerts will begin on November 20th.

VOGL, the tenor, will celebrate the 25th anniversary of his debut as singer on November 5th.

A new opera by Johann Strauss, "Wiener Pazman?" will be performed at the Vienna opera next winter.

MME. TERESA CARRENO is engaged to play at one of the first Berlin Philharmonic concerts next winter.

The tenor Ravel will sing at the Berlin opera during September. In October he is engaged for Holland.

MR. THOMAS GODDARD, the father of Mme. Arabella Goddard, the pianist, died in London at the age of 98 years.

MME. PATTI recently organized a benefit concert in Wales in aid of local charities, and realized the sum of £5000.

GOUNOD is writing a new Mass. He intends setting music to a libretto founded on one of Alfred de Musset's poetical works.

LONDON is to have a season of Italian opera at popular prices. It will open at Covent Garden on October 18th, and will last six weeks.

The anniversary of Liszt's death was commemorated at the Vienna Opera House by a performance of the master's "St. Elizabeth."

SAINT-SAËNS has presented his art-collection to the city of Dieppe. It has been preserved in a house that will bear the composer's name.

DELIEBE, the composer of "Sylvia," has just completed a new opera, "Katia," to be performed at the Opera Comique, Paris, next winter.

The Grunfeld Brothers, pianists and violoncellists, intend visiting this country and making a tour of the United States in the winter of 1891-92.

The Berlin Royal Opera will be opened this season with "Tannhäuser," to be followed by "Tristan and Isolde," with Thérèse Malten as Isolde.

MME. NORMAN-NERUDA, the celebrated violinist, and her husband, Sir Charles Halle, the Beethoven player, are concertizing in Australia at present.

CONDUCTORS LAMOUREUX, of Paris, contemplates making a tour of Belgium and Holland with his orchestra. He will give preference to Wagner compositions.

The tenor Tammaro is to be remembered for the operatic stage and devotees of his grand passionate style expect to hear him in America next winter.

RUBINSTEIN, who is in excellent health and spirits, has been visiting Oberammergau to see the "Passion Play." He has just completed a number of new works.

The German composer Robert von Hornstein died at Munich. He was known best from his having set the verses of Shakespeare, Goethe, Bürger, Byron, and others to music. He was born in 1838.

[Decorative image at top: ornate illustrated masthead that spells THE ETUDE in large decorative lettering over a black circular moon-like background at left; the letters are entwined with floral ornamentation, leaves and roses. To the right of the title are several flying birds, and the entire header is richly engraved with foliage and floral scrollwork.]
134

THE ETUDE.

THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF MUSICAL STUDY ABROAD.

BY W. S. B. MATHEWS.

I HAVE been asked over and over again to express my mind upon the general question of the advisability of American students pursuing a part of their studies abroad, — meaning thereby in Europe. To do this just now was right good will, because it is a question not wholly upon one side, having both advantages and disadvantages so evenly balanced as to make it a difficult matter to say which side should have the verdict.

As an American teacher, I have no sympathy with the disposition of many to send pupils to Europe for "completing" their study — in the sense of keeping here preparatory schools. I do not keep a preparatory school, nor do I like to see any other reputable American do so. Nor would I value the verdict of a foreign conservatory that such and such pupils had been sent there "well prepared." I am not "preparing" pupils; I seek to finish them. In other words, I prepare them to take care of themselves. Why not?

Nor do I recognize superiority in European teachers of pianoforte over those of this country. On the contrary, we have here all sorts of teachers. Among them are some who represent everything that Europe has to give a musician: a men of ability and real solidity. In short, artists of a high character. Teachers like Sherwood, Liebling, Faelten, Baermann, Lang, Perry, Orth, Mason, Parsons, Bock, Eddy, Bowman, Foote, McDowell, do not need European endorsement. They are first-class artists, independent and intelligent. What teaching can do for students, they know as surely and as masterly as any one in Europe. These men are above the usual level of the celebrated teachers into whose classes American teachers can come in Europe. Only Moszkowski, Leschetitzky and Scharwenka are to be mentioned as belonging in the same high class.

I go further, and claim that American teaching is often better than the best foreign. It is more independent, less hampered by tradition and more progressive. In fact Mason's technic is one of the few real advances in piano teaching of the past half century.

It is self-evident that American teaching fits the pupil's state better than foreign. Consider for a moment the conditions under which foreign teaching has to be done. The American student in Germany is shut up to the alternative of taking his lessons in the German language, and through his imperfect knowledge of it, losing half the fine distinctions which the teacher attempts to point out to him; or of taking the lessons in English from a teacher who himself but imperfectly understands it, and who in addition to imperfect mastery of English is also limited in time, having a class of four or six pupils, so that each has only from ten to fifteen minutes for individual attention.

If this be true of the German teachers of the first class, what shall we say of those of the second and third rank, such as occupy chairs in most of the conservatories? They are good musicians, to be sure, but men without originality, taste or inspiring quality. Eminently respectable and praiseworthy, but, oh, how dull! These men are in ruts, and never for an instant do they make allowances for individuality or progress. They kill talent, except in a few cases where it is of such pre-eminent quality as to rise in spite of them.

The musical atmosphere of Germany is in part a myth. In certain centres, such as Leipzig, Berlin, Vienna and Munich, there is a vast amount of classic or serious music played in the course of a year, and students can obtain access thereto at a minimum of expense. Some of the advantages in this line are of the best possible character; but also many of the programmes are thoroughly conventional, and the readings merely respectable. Nowhere in Germany, for instance, except perhaps under Bülow's baton, can such performances be heard as now in Boston under Nikisch's baton, or at Brighton under Seidl. The readings of these great artists are strong, fresh and inspiring. Nor can high-class music be heard in Germany at less expense than in some of our own larger cities. The various quartets and symphony orchestras sell many tickets at merely nominal prices. It is fortunately true that the demand for these tickets far exceeds the supply. But this will right itself in time. In choral music, Chicago offers better advantages than any other place in America, our Apollo Club, under Mr. Tomlins' baton, singing better than any other large society (they have five hundred voices this year), and also at lower prices of admission, a benefit for which our great Auditorium is partly to be thanked.

The so-called musical atmosphere of Europe is practically inaccessible to American students. That is to say, German artists live among themselves. American students have no part in their life until they have already become artists, or have given practical evidences of being in the way to do so. We look at this thing from a mistaken standpoint. We remember Wm. Mason's life in Weimar, many of us having heard from him the interesting incidents relating to it. Others think of Miss Fay's charming incident, "Music Study Abroad." I call this fascinating little work an accident, because it was not expected to become a book. Miss Fay, who was occasionally for the home folks, wrote with a sincere and childlike enthusiasm, such as few musical writers can show; the larger public looked over her shoulder and learned to see with her eyes. But this musical atmosphere, which Miss Fay breathed in Berlin and Weimar, she in part created herself, and in part entered into by reason of her own social preparation there, and a degree wholly exceptional. Educated by her father at Cambridge, along with the children of the poet Longfellow, she belonged of right to a highly cultivated circle of literary and artistic people.

Then this musical life was that immediately surrounding Liszt. Liszt was a phenomenon in music. He had enormous enthusiasm, magnetism and originality. He drew to himself the best of every country, and each was the inspiring quality of his personality that he excited each one to give out his best. This musical life at Weimar was sui generis and without parallel in the history of music. Something like it might be had here if, for example, Theodore Thomas were a brilliant talker and a lover of young musicians. With his knowledge of the best music much might be learned from his conversation. Those who had the good fortune to know Dr. Mason twenty years ago, and were intimate with him, will understand what I mean. A student taken in hand by McDowell or Sherwood and admitted to his confidence would have a musical atmosphere such as few centres in Europe can boast. But no one of our teachers keeps a salon. Those who might do so, have too much to do. It is so in Europe. There is indeed a musical atmosphere in Europe made up of American students, who, having come from home, are dependent upon each other for society and inspiration. They talk over musical works and performances, compare notes, read the criticisms, etc., and in many ways improve on each other. But the life in turn might just as well be had in America. In music it is as in religion, that wherever two or three are gathered in the name of art there is an art atmosphere. Many a lady teacher of my acquaintance has an art atmosphere in her town, more sincere, more religious and more formative to the pupil under her care than much of a more pretentious kind in celebrated places. In music, also, the kingdom of Heaven cometh not with observation.

Have you ever thought how it happened that all the great players were educated by comparatively unknown provincial teachers? It is for the reason that genius comes where the conditions are ripe for it, and sunlight and personal care are the main requisites for its development. All these fine players have taken from their unknown teachers an amplitude of personal care and affection which no celebrated teacher could have been paid to give them. The marriages which have taken place freely express this. Think of Marcella Sembrich and her amiable but frowsy-headed husband, who taught her piano; Essipoff and Leschetitzky; Chopin was a master pianist from the hand of an obscure teacher in Warsaw. When he went to Vienna at the age of nineteen he was as good a player as he ever became. Even those giants, Tausig, Rubinstein, D'Albert, became pianists mainly through their early training with teachers comparatively unknown, by the sheer momentum of their own original insight and genius for the art.

There was a musical atmosphere in Berlin, I suppose, when Kullak's class had such members as Liebling, Sherwood, Orth and many other Americans, whose names do not at this moment occur to me. But the pre-eminent quality of it appears only when it is looked at later, in the light of the subsequent revelations of the originality of these young men.

There are two objections to the value of music study abroad. The first is the rigid character of it, and the inevitable hampering of the young teacher with the obligation to do with his pupils exactly as his German masters did by him. I have never known a young musician home from Germany who did not have to outgrow this influence before reaching real usefulness in America. The same difficulty exists with young masters educated in America, as any of us having sons in college can testify, but in the case of study at a celebrated foreign musical centre, there is the added halo of distance and indistinctness. The second objection is the length of time occupied. I think the same attainments occupy half as long again to reach in Europe as in America.

There are two other considerations, however, strongly in favor of foreign study. The first is the probability of continuance. All who have undertaken to deal with students in this country know how extremely difficult it is to keep them at study without their losing much time in ill-judged effort to earn money. When a student goes to Germany, the point is conceded. The parental offer is opened for two, or three years upon a rational estimate of the amount needed, including expenditures for concerts and all the rest. Here it is not so. An advanced student has an opportunity to earn something by giving lessons, and immediately he cuts off half his time for practising, reduces the lessons to one a week, and hampers his progress to such a degree that it is a little less than a miracle if he accomplishes anything. So also in attending concerts. A parent measures up to your price for lessons without hesitation, but when he is asked to add to this sum a certain allowance for concerts, his soul rebels. Upon this ground, solely, I have seen talented pupils go abroad.

Another reason for going abroad is the reduction of self-conceit. The cure is not permanent, but while a student is under European soil self-conceit is very materially mitigated, and in some cases cured forever.

I remember that I asked Dr. Mason his opinion of this question some years ago. In 1860 he told me a good deal of his experiences at Weimar. After I had heard all that he reverentially spoke due to the name of Liszt and Mason (especially as I had always been a disciple of Dr. Lowell Mason), I asked: "Well, did it pay?" His answer was conclusive. "No!" he said, "it did not. Liszt, although full of inspiration, was the most unsystematic of men. He was no teacher at all. One could learn much there, but nothing systematically or in convenient form for after use." Some years later, when speaking of young students going abroad, Dr. Mason said that the main use of it was "for the boys to discover themselves." In another sense he said, "It is exceedingly good for taking conceit out of them."

In the case of virtuosi, it is different. I suppose that if Clarence Eddy had studied with Dudley Buck five years as he did with Haupt, very likely he would have become about as good an organist as he is now. But he learned from Haupt all that an old virtuoso could teach a young one, together with whatever added years had taught the older man as likely to increase the possibilities of a talented student. Virtuosi must eventually find their true emulation among masters of the art.

And in conclusion, I would recommend to every young American going abroad the reflection that, however interesting it may be to him and however profitable, he is not going to learn anything there which he could not learn just as surely and exactly, and generally more quickly, in America; provided only that he would enter and continue his studies here with the same ardour and perseverance which would be required there. There are many things of exceptional value in foreign study. But as a rule, save in the case of the exceptional pupil, I do not advise it. The advantages are too often exaggerated, and the disadvantages are too often hidden. For ourselves, let us develop our own resources, and not be forever sending our best young men and women abroad to be formed after foreign patterns.

Description of non-textual content:
- The page is a scanned newspaper/magazine page (The Etude), with the page number "134" at the top left and the title "THE ETUDE." centered at the top. The article title "THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF MUSICAL STUDY ABROAD." and the byline "BY W. S. B. MATHEWS." appear beneath the header. The text is presented in two dense columns with narrow margins and small serif type. The page shows aging artifacts: light spots, slight discoloration, and some faint smudging around the edges, but no photographs or illustrative images—only typographic ornaments and rules separating columns.
THE ETUDE. 135

Europe can do nothing in musical pedagogy which America cannot do in art as well. The star of art shines no more brightly there than here. The majority of people in all lands care but little for art. Only a few are chosen in any country. America is crude and new; but our progress is wonderful. And in the art of teaching, in readiness to adopt new ideas, we have an advantage. But after all, the great point is the language and the psychic compatibility of compatriots. These two elements are strong upon the side of home study.

MUSIC STUDY IN AMERICA VS. GERMANY.

The day is long since past when it was necessary for the American piano student to go abroad to study. America is progressive, inventive, and quick to utilize discoveries. Germany is conservative, and before making practical use of a discovery insists upon analyzing it in minutest detail. Electricity affords an apt illustration of this idiosyncrasy. American energy was reaping substantial benefits from the employment of this subtle element, while Germans were still pondering over the question, "What is electricity?"

The principles of teaching established at Stuttgart, Leipzig, and by other conservatories of Germany, forty or fifty years ago, are still being taught by those who yearly graduated from these institutions.

While it is true that Germany can boast of more good musicians than America, it is due not to the superior quality of instruction to be obtained there, but to the law of heredity, which causes a talent to be transmitted from generation to generation, evolving, at last, a person possessing superior gifts. Another reason is that the German music student studies longer and goes further and deeper into our art than does the American pupil.

All America needs is, time, to equal Germany in this regard, as she already does in many others, and indeed, it is in numbers only that we are now excelled, as we can with pride point to a group of American musicians not to be surpassed in any other country of the globe.

As a proof of the superiority of American methods of instruction, the large number of pupils known to the writer who have returned from studies abroad to continue with American teachers, find that they obtain more artistic results under home instruction than under any received elsewhere. They discover that this is not only true as regards analysis and tone-coloring, but that our methods of teaching the mechanics of the art are far in advance of the hackneyed systems used abroad. An instance of this is found in the fact that the most advanced American musicians realize the necessity of individually developing the muscles of the hand and arm, not alone the flexors, which the Germans persist in over-developing, but also the interossei, supinators, pronators, and, especially the extensors, that the heaviness of the natural strong flexors may be counteracted.

While the musical-atmosphere of Germany may be conducive to broadening the student's ideas, this will not serve in lieu of comprehensive analytic instruction, such as is being given at present by our most advanced teachers.

The time has certainly come when the American student may rest content with the opportunities afforded by his native land, secure in the knowledge that the best instruction that the world affords is here.

H. A. KELSO, Jr.

WHAT SHALL WE PLAY?
PART II.
BY EDWARD BAXTER PERRY.

In answer to this query, I would advance, as my second proposition, that we should play what we like.

Of course, in stating this as an axiom, I presuppose a certain right to an opinion or preference, on the part of those making the choice, based upon at least an average amount of natural artistic taste, supplemented by a fair degree of education and culture in this special line. But even where these conditions are lacking, I should still defend my maxim, and advocate strict adherence to it.

I wish to emphasize, however, that my remarks refer to what we play; by no means to what we study. In our own practice, we cannot cover too wide a range of moods, schools, and composers. It is the only way to grow, to become broad, comprehensive, universal, in our taste and treatment. But a genuine devotion to a composition must precede any public presentation of it if we look for success.

There is an old saying, "A live woman is better than a dead hero;" and it applies here. The most cheap and flippant waltz, if given with spirit and hearty enjoyment, bringing the rhythmic element, if nothing more, into strong prominence, has more real artistic character, is more tolerable, than an indifferent, unintelligible, sleepy presentation of the mutilated corpse of a noble classic.

If you do not enjoy a composition, one of two things must necessarily be true. Either there is nothing in it to enjoy—in that case it should never be played by any one—or you do not understand it, in which event be very sure that your audience will not. Others will always feel and share your indifference and generally multiply it tenfold. By understanding a composition I do not mean merely the intellectual grasp of its form and general character, but the ability to sympathize with and fully enter into its spirit, so as to impress it upon the listener.

An eminent master, who was authority in both, once said carelessly to a group of students, including the writer: "My dear young friends, never kiss a woman or play a composer whom you do not love. Believe me, there will be no more warmth in the one than in the other, and you will wrong them both."

Nearly all, even among the great artists those possessing most breadth and versatility are subject to certain definite limitations of this kind, which it is never wise for them to transgress. There will always be one or more of the recognized masters of composition in whose works they do not glory; one or more of the legitimate phases of musical thought and mood in which they cannot subjectively participate. It is generally admitted, for instance, even among the most devoted admirers of that veteran lady-pianist, Madame Schumann, that she cannot play Chopin, and when works by that master are announced for her performance, it is mildly whispered in Frankfort that she has made "an unfortunate choice."

Thus von Bulow cannot play a pure lyric, even tolerably, though he excels in most lines of work and commands, in addition, one which is wholly beyond the reach of most players, and, some claim, even beyond the range of instrumental rendition altogether: I refer to the arch, the whimsical, what may be denominated the humorous in music. D'Albert, in spite of his tremendous power, breadth and speed, is, strange to say, so unsatisfactory as to be almost impotent in climacteric effects; and De Pachmann, though he has the most exquisite appreciation and control of the lyrics of Chopin, of the daintier, more tender and graceful of his compositions, fails of the passion and dramatic power for the larger works, and thus is falsely designated the greatest Chopin player of the age.

The writer never heard but two pianists, Liszt and Rubinstein, who did not very distinctly lack restrictions in some direction. Many excellent concert performers are confined to two or three styles which they play exceptionally well, while they are painfully weak in all others. A large proportion of amateurs have only one vein of composition which they are willing to recognize as music at all, most frequently the melodious and lyric; though some reserve their approbation exclusively for the brilliant, and others again like only the mournful and pathetic. It is of course advisable in study to cover as broad a field of composition as possible, striving so far as may be to cultivate appreciation of, and taste for, even those forms of musical sentiment and expression toward which one's natural temperament is indifferent. The careful and repeated objective rendition of a given class of compositions, which seemed at first totally at variance with our nature and habits of mood, will often, though gradually, develop a real fondness and sympathy for it, till at last it becomes a second nature, a new, but thoroughly assimilated element in our spiritual life, an added resource in our art-work. This is, in fact, the only direct method of extending our emotional gamut, so to speak; but just as there will always be some good, legitimate musical tones too low for the soprano, and others too high for the contralto, no matter how well trained, so there must always remain, for all but the few phenomenally versatile natures, certain heights or depths in ear-perception, certain emotional points of view on the extreme opposite side of the circle from their normal positions, which they can never reach, and which, therefore, they should never attempt to include for others.

The intelligent tenor, though studying for "high C," and even when able sometimes to take it fairly well in private, with all conditions favorable, avoids in public songs which demand it, and confines himself to the register within which he can count upon his voice. So the player, though striving in his self-culture for breadth and universality, should restrict himself rigidly in public to compositions which he can thoroughly feel, as well as comprehend and execute.

I am well aware that I have here sounded the signal for the old controversy between the objective and subjective schools of interpretation, and an exhaustive discussion of their respective merits seems to me about as useful and about as rational as that engaged in by the two knights in the fable, concerning the metal of which a certain shield was composed, which was in reality gold upon one side and silver on the other. They approached it from opposite directions, of course could not agree as to its material, and proceeded, man-like, to settle the dispute and find out the truth by splitting each other's heads. In the present case neither side is worth fighting about, for neither the one nor the other alone is of any real value for art purposes; but a fusion of about equal parts of both is the true requisite, the priceless compound. Subjectivity alone is erratic, capricious, unreliable, often untrue; while objectivity, when it becomes too rigid is right. Objectivity alone is cold, stiff, formal. It is to reach at what a perfect wax figure, automatically worked by springs and levers, is to warm, breathing, sentient human form; wonderful, faultless, it may be, but not lovable. The two qualities must be equally united, and the result will be always true and beautiful.

When a great actor studies a new part it is first objective, to find out exactly what the character is that he is to impersonate; but when he steps upon the stage, he does not merely imitate mechanically the probable actions and gestures of his character in given situations; nor, on the other hand, does he make the part mirror his own chance mood of the evening; but throws himself subjectively into it, lives for the time the emotions he is portraying, is for the time Hamlet, or Lear, or Richard Third, according to his definite objective conception of their respective characters. The musician, like the stage artist, must be able to put on a mood at will, like a cloak; not merely to hold it out on a stick for inspection, but actually to wear it for the time, as if it were his own preferred and chosen garment, and warm it from within by his own life-glow. The trying on and fitting, however, should be done in private. He must accustom himself to the new apparel, so as to feel easy and natural in it before subjecting it and himself to observation and criticism. The first appearance of a nineteenth century gentleman in a Roman toga, if public, would be likely to make both gentleman and toga ridiculous, besides being very uncomfortable. And if, after long practice and strenuous effort, a man finds a Roman toga or a coat of mail positively suited to his form and carriage, let him spare the public the spectacle of beholding him in them, and confine himself to such apparel as he can wear with grace and dignity. In justice, then, to our audience and our comrades, we should only play what we thoroughly know and like, but practice and strive to like as many good things as possible.

EDWARD BAXTER PERRY.

VACANCY for a Vocal and Piano Teacher. Address THE ETUDE OFFICE.

Description of non-textual elements:
- At the top center above the title is a small decorative emblem, resembling a stylized "V" or ornamental flourish.
- The page is laid out in four narrow columns separated by thin rules; there are horizontal ornamental rules under the title and above the small boxed advertisement.
- In the lower right corner is a small rectangular boxed advertisement reading "VACANCY for a Vocal and Piano Teacher. Address THE ETUDE OFFICE."
- The page has slight aged paper texture, faint smudges, and some small darkened spots from the scan.
136

THE ETUDE.

MUSICAL THINKING AND DOING.
BY HERVE D. WILKINS.

(Continued from August issue.)

Music is not made simply of tones only, they must be measured; and we must learn to think rhythms as well as melodies. The system of beating time in singing and in all of counting in piano playing is well known and has borne the test of time, but there are many other things about rhythm besides beating time and counting; many pupils are lacking in the sense of time, and it often requires great skill and patience on the part of the teacher to develop the powers of the pupil in this regard. The ancient studies of Mason and others are admirably calculated to teach equality and accurate subdivisions.

The features of rhythm which seem to demand more thorough attention on the part of educators are connected with what may be termed expressive rhythm. Pieces which demand a resolute delivery are often lacking in that quality, and few persons are able to maintain in such passages a rhythm which shall impress by its power and perfection, without undue nervousness and without haste and interruption. The cultivation of an energetic rhythm is of great importance in developing breadth of style, and there are many pieces which require that varied shading must also be introduced without changing the pace, and teachers all know how difficult it often is for a pupil to learn to play diminuendo without dragging and crescendo without hurrying. The vocal and instrumental pieces of Mendelssohn are among the most important examples of music where varying shades of power must be continually employed without disturbing the rhythm of the piece.

Then there is the grazioso, how to keep time without making any show of doing so, to bring the melody to the fore so that tone predominates over rhythm. That is also a question of moment, demanding continual ingenuity and study on the part of the thinking musician.

There is the ritenuto; few musicians comparatively keep time when they encounter this direction. The time, as all know, ought to be kept strictly, but a slower pace; but I think all musicians will agree with me, that the ritenuto is more often made into a ritardando or an ad libitum, than into the sudden change of tempo indicated by ritenuto. Composers, too, are often lax in marking their music, using the abbreviation rit., which may mean either ritardando or ritenuto, thus leaving the performer in doubt which is meant. This abbreviation ought, for this reason, to be discarded entirely.

Probably there is no point connected with keeping time in which there is more error in theory and more laxity in practice than in rendering the final notes of phrases and pieces. It was even maintained by an essayist at the National meeting at Indianapolis that the abbreviation ten. over a note has no meaning anywhere, as each note must be held for its full value in every case. It used to be taught in the old instruction books, and it may be taught in the new ones, that the tone must cease at a rest. But it ought to be maintained and enforced by all teachers, that all final notes of phrases, all isolated notes and chords, and also all notes before a breath mark, do not cease on the rest which follows, but on their final pulse, and this leads us to remark that the time signature does not always indicate the real rhythm. The adagios of Beethoven's sonatas in C minor op. 10 No. 3 are marked 2/4, but the real rhythm is 6/8, and the adagio of the sonata in C op. 2 is marked 4/4 while the actual rhythm is 3/4. Again many played movements are marked 6/8 when the actual rhythm is 3/4. Scherzos are marked 3/4 when the real rhythm is 6/8. It is for the teacher to perceive these facts and to instruct his pupil in regard to the proper delivery of the final tones on the basis of the real rhythm of the piece. A great absence in musical performance is connected with the final chords of pieces. So great an artist as De Pachmann often strikes a lot of chords at random, and extemporaneous for a conclusion. Sometimes these are two or three staccato chords at the end of a piece, such as the three final chords to Schumann's Novelette in F, the two at the end of the polkas and mazurkas by Wollenhaupt and enormously most endings are a study by themselves, affording endless variety, but the final staccato chord is too often held, and the final chord, with a hold over it which ought to be held from three to a dozen or more pulses is recklessly shortened. I have found it a good plan in my teaching, in the case of a long final chord to decide by reference how long it ought to be and then to mark it with a Roman numeral, leaving the pupil to count it exactly, and leave it on the final beat.

One of the most important fields of study for the performer whose aim is to impress the public is that of structure. It is only by a thorough knowledge of the plan of his work and what each phrase can lead to, that the student can learn how to produce the best effect without undue effort; how to produce a forte or a fortissimo which shall not be noisy, and a piano or pianissimo which shall not be weak. It is therefore instructive to consider how essential the resonant parts or instruments are in the mechanical production of tone. The vibrating wire makes but a feeble sound by itself, but when attached to the sounding-board, as in the piano or violin, melodious and carrying qualities are developed. The vibrating parts of wind instruments, such as the clarinet and oboe depend upon resonant tubes or pipes for the adequate reinforcement of their vibrations, and the action of the human voice is quite similar to these instruments, since it has both vibrating and resonant parts. Generally speaking, both in singing and playing vibrations may be said to be produced by muscular strain and resonance by mental skill. To say that a performer has strength or force is not always praise, for force is often exercised unduly, and directed wrongly, and we all know that when force is unduly exercised, either in singing or playing, resonance is weakened. But to say that a performer has power, however measured, is, in most cases, that the muscular action is dominated by the mental, that strength is economized on the one hand and power developed on the other, by right thinking and right doing. The effect of endurance and of successful effort lies in the direction of learning how to produce the maximum effect with the minimum of effort through a correct comprehension of the nature of resonance, and a study of the correct method of developing it into production.

Another interesting study in connection with musical performance is the study of concentration. The highest musical effects are produced only when all the faculties of mind, body and spirit are enlisted. The Italians have a fine word to express this exalted manner of musical effort. When a performer has a spontaneous, free and outpouring delivery they say that he has anima, and such is the emotional nature of musical effect, that often the technical faults and natural defects of utterance are overlooked, and an audience will be carried away by a performer who may have limitations from a scientific point of view, but who has nevertheless musical genius and magnetic power.

Musical performers suffer universally from what they call nervousness. This is nothing more or less than undue self-consciousness, and can in no way be cured so well as by objective study. The musical performer should study so thoroughly to concentrate his thoughts upon his work that when the critical moment arrives he can forget himself and his audience and fix his mind solely upon the music he has to make. I will go so far as to say that he should ever forget how he looks it, and that his performance should in so far resemble pure musical thinking that it shall be perfectly spontaneous and devoid of effort. To do this requires every day study; one should read much music without performing it, traversing mentally all the operations involved. Mr. G. B. Cady, of Chicago, once told me of a pupil who learned by pieces entirely and committed them to memory in this way, and who would produce them on the piano for the first time at her lessons. All artists know the value of this sort of study and are in the habit of thinking over their pieces either in memory or from the printed page with the attention of the mind. One also learns in this way to think ahead, to anticipate what is coming the next moment while doing the work of this.

I would like to say a word in conclusion about the singing hand. We are accustomed to regard and speak of vocal and instrumental music as different; at the same time we notice that certain performers and certain composers have the art of making everything melodious. It is an acknowledged merit of the music of Beethoven, for example, that all the passages are developed out of the theme; there is no padding, there is nothing lacking and there is nothing superfluous in the expression of his thoughts. We notice in the utterances of some singers and players, that all the scales and passages as well as the slower melodies have a singing effect, and on the other hand we find singers and players whose utterances through the lack of this quality, fail to interest us. The sounds are there but there is no melody in them, or at least not as much as there ought to be.

All music matters, whether vocal or instrumental, ought to be a speech to the intellect as well as to the feelings. The mind of the singer and player should think for the mind of the listener; music must be a reflected thought, a reasoned work; it is to be a transparent mirror in which thought is as much expressed as feeling. The mind must be developed in the sense of perception, and the inner ear must be capable of appreciating the artist's thought. The quiet, simple study of music is the most important thing, it is the very essence of art.

All the arts flow from the same source; it is the idea embodied in a work of art, and not the mode of enunciating it, that determines its rank in the scale of beauty. —Franz Liszt.

THE INFLUENCE OF SCHOOL MUSIC ON PIANO PUPILS.

It is often a matter of surprise to me that teachers of the piano take so little interest in vocal music, and I have wondered sometimes whether we musicians are not just a little inclined to be wrapped up each in his own little world, forgetting that there is anything deserving of attention beyond the limits which bound our individual work.

I am willing to acknowledge that the followers of vocal art are quite as narrow in this particular as are instrumentalists. In a general way we all acknowledge that the ideal life is an unselfish one, but when it comes to business it seems the way of the world to think that the ways and means which bring success to self are those which are most desirable for us to adopt.

So in considering the subject before us, I shall ask you to look at the matter from a purely selfish standpoint, and I shall try to show that the piano teacher of the country should use every means in their power to secure the introduction of good music into the public schools, not only for the benefit of the children who attend these schools, but because by this means they may more easily secure the results for which they aim, and thus add to their own reputations, and establish a public demand for their services, and for such public taste, which will do more to keep music in the country than any other agency.

Music, of all the arts, is the most evanescent. It is a living thing impossible to perpetuate, except through living artists. The works of the great masters of painting speak for themselves; no living artist-hand is necessary to interpret their beauties; even the most ignorant in art may stand in their presence and be touched, with the heavenly flame which inspired their creation.

So too with poetry and architecture. So long as the printing press exists and magnificent columns stand, the soul of the artist who beautified the divine words and of him who conceived the grand cathedral may speak directly to all who come under the charmed influence.

Not so with the mighty master of music; the language which he spoke is hidden under hieroglyphics which reveal nothing of the emotions which stirred his soul and found voice in strains of wondrous beauty. Hidden deeper than priceless gems, bound up in a silence more profound than death, the voice of the master's soul must remain until another soul is developed who can interpret to the world this message, this strain of melody divine.

The poet, the sculptor, the painter may die, but their works live to speak to all, in a language clear and strong, the thoughts which gave them birth; but when the musician is dead his song dies with him, until some other artist brings it to life again through the magic of voice or touch.

So the youth of our land may read for themselves the works of the great masters of all times, they may study the works of the great masters of painting and architecture in the very form which fell from the master's hands; but before they can feel the emotion which gave birth to a great musical composition, they must hear the master's pieces as interpreted by one who has the technical training and skill necessary to its performance, and whose soul also is in sympathy with its composer.

Music is the youngest of the arts, the art still in an early stage of development. Doubtless the time may come, when one who can play or sing a composition of a master will be able to interpret definitely the emotions which brought forth the music, but now, although music speaks more directly to the heart than any other art, its language is indefinite and liable to a very perversion from every individual who speaks it. That it is a language capable of bringing joy to the sorrowing, peace, comfort and gladness to all, none deny, and we who have chosen the high calling of interpreters of this divine language should leave no means unused for the education of all toward a more perfect understanding of its meaning.

Every great work for a race of people must begin with the children, and nowhere can the children be reached so generally as in the public schools. In the public schools today may be found all the great artists of to-morrow, in the making, but not so many as there ought to be. The public schools of Germany have for generations given wide opportunity for children to hear singing and the playing of the best music. There is not a town of any size in Germany but what has a band, an orchestra, or some public ensemble of musicians who practise in the school rooms and public places, so that the child is from earliest years surrounded by the best musical influence.

This is the reason why there are so many fine singers and musicians in Germany. The child who hears good music and the singing in school will grow up with a love for the art which will draw him later to the conservatory or to private lessons and the pursuit of a musical career. In America the public schools are behind in this respect, but the movement is growing and now many cities have taken up the work with success. Yet much remains to be done.

Piano teachers should co-operate with the school authorities in every possible way. They should be willing to give concerts, to help with the selection of music, to train teachers, to play the accompaniments, in short, to take an active part in the development of the school music. By so doing they secure a public acquaintance with their art, they create interest in music, and they will find pupils coming to them who have been trained in the schools.

The work of teaching singing in the schools is not to be confounded with the training of professional singers. The aim should be to give the child a knowledge and love of the art, to teach him to sing in tune, to feel rhythm and to produce a beautiful tone, and to enjoy the ensemble work. The methods used should be simple, practical, and adapted to the child mind, and the teacher should be one who understands the child's needs and limitations.

When children are taught to sing in school, the piano teacher will find that many of them can be more rapidly developed and that their natural musical instincts have been aroused. The schools will thus furnish a better class of pupils for private lessons, and the general tone of music in the community will be raised.

It is also to be remembered that the school choir may be the means of discovering talent which otherwise would remain hidden. A boy or girl who sings in the school may be found to have a voice of rare quality, and the alert teacher will recognize this and encourage the sending of the child to a private teacher for development.

The teacher should be ready to do this, and should have in view the possibilities in every child. The obligation of the piano teacher is not only to impart technical proficiency but to be a promoter of musical education in the whole community.

In conclusion, let me urge the piano teacher to take an active interest in school music. Let him lend his help and his influence to every movement to bring music into the schools, and he will be repaid a hundred fold in increased interest, better pupils, and a higher appreciation of the art which is his life work.

Description of non-textual elements:
- The page is a full-page, black-and-white scan of a magazine (The Etude), page number 136 at the top left. The title THE ETUDE is centered at the top in large capital letters. Three columns of tightly set serif type occupy the page, separated by thin vertical rules. Horizontal rules separate article headings from the body text. There is a short decorative dash and the attribution “—Franz Liszt.” beneath a centered epigraph. The paper shows slight aging/ speckling and faint margin wear along the edges.
THE ETUDE.                                                                                                 137

public schools of to-day are the audiences of to-morrow,
and the development of the art of music depends upon
what we to-day do for our artists and audiences of to-
morrow.

The teacher of the piano may say, "If the spirit of
the artist exists in an individual it will find a means
of cultivation, no matter how adverse are the cir-
cumstances, and music as taught in the public schools
can be only a superficial kind, which can be of no value
in a thoroughly musical education." Even if the first
objection were true, there can be only good results from
making the earlier attainments of the youthful artist
easier to acquire, and I am personally of the opinion that
a knowledge of music could be gained in childhood in
connection with the regular work of the school. We
should have broader musicians than we average to-day
as a class, and that would mean a larger number of great
artists.

As to the superficial character of the music taught in
the public schools, this fault is certainly not a necessary
one, and if it is a general one, who is to blame if not the
musicians themselves.

Piano teachers are more numerous than any other
class of music teachers. Every small town has its piano
teacher, and in large towns they outnumber the vocal
teachers ten to one. Now if all piano teachers would
interest themselves in the music in the public schools
what would be the result?

First, no town would be without music in its schools.
If the music were properly taught, an interest would be
created which would soon arouse every parent to give
his children all the musical advantages the town afforded.
The objection may be raised that if children were taught
music in school free of expense, they would not be so
anxious for private lessons for which they must pay tui-
tion. But all who have seen the results of a few years
of good music in school will be able to show the fallacy
of such a narrow objection. The greater the enthusiasm
over school music the greater the number of pupils who
wish to continue the study of the art they learn to love
so well. Then think of the time saved by the piano teacher
in the elementary lessons; no weary plodding over the
letters on the staff, no mechanical drudgery to teach the
notes and rests, no laborious counting to give the rhyth-
mical feeling, no devices to teach the signs and symbols,
and best of all no teasing from the pupils for the "Annie
Rooney" style of music, for by proper teaching in school
the natural taste of the child is developed, and he
knows good music when he hears it, and cannot be
induced to waste his time with trash.

The cultivating of a child's taste is a matter of great
importance; far greater than many of us realize. Bad
taste is not a natural endowment; it is the result of
wrong education. The child who hears frivolous, trashy
music constantly applauded by his elders, naturally con-
cludes that what his superiors call good must be good,
and thus poor taste is cultivated in him; but in the
same way, exactly opposite results are obtained. Let a
child hear good music, and when poor music reaches his
ear, let him hear it condemned as it deserves and he
acquires good taste without any effort on his part.

Can any piano teacher inform me of a greater good to
his profession than to find his pupils already possessed of
good musical taste?

I see I have not confined myself entirely to the selfish
side of the question, as I promised to do when I began,
but I think that it will not be difficult for any piano
teacher to deduce the conclusions which I promised to
make for him from what I have already said.

And if any one is inclined to doubt that good music in
the public schools means money in the pocket of the
piano teacher, I can bring him positive proof of the fact,
from personal experience — of my own, and I have many
friends among piano teachers who have made the same
experiment with similar results.

So let me plead with you, piano teachers of our coun-
try, whose influence is so far reaching, because you are so
many, do all you can for music in the schools about you;
see to it that competent teachers are secured, make your
work in the matter vigorous and thorough, and follow it
with personal attention, that every child in the public

schools may be taught music, and that his instruction be
the best which can possibly be secured.

I promise you a return of one hundredfold from all
the good seed you sow in this field.

J. E. CRANE.

MUSIC FOR THE MASSES.

"The great desideratum is, that the vast human family should
become more musical. Whatever means will do this, or aid in doing
this, should be utilized." — WM. BESEMER [sic; name printed in small caps, slightly unclear].

That is the only reasonable standpoint. Do we wish
the vast human family to become more musical? Or,
are we content that it shall remain the privilege of the
favored few? Whether it shall be a matter of inclina-
tion, or a question not merely of dollars and cents, but
of hundreds of dollars? Whether music shall be con-
sidered a necessary training, or merely an accomplish-
ment, attained by those less favored by nature than by
circumstances, while those to whom it is denied are
often its most ardent worshipers.

Of the long processions of children who will march
into the public schools at their next opening, to the
strains of inspiring music, it will not be the child of
wealth, the pampered pride of the household, the darling
of the doting parent, who will be impressed, so much as
the "common lot," — the neglected waifs brought in from
obscure city streets and country lanes, who will gaze
with awe and wonder, and tread with reverent foot the
newer spirit that stirs their souls.

It is these waifs that song should reach. It is from
these, who are nearest to nature, in their awe and sim-
plicity, of whom the priests and apostles of music are to
be elected and sent forth. "Whatever means will do this,
or aid in doing it, should be utilized."

Our educators and school boards honestly think they
are using the best means for the symmetrical growth and
highest development of the children placed under their
care. Parent, trustee and teacher unite in their efforts
to mould them into refined, good and intelligent citizens;
yet they are continually pained by failure.

Says Edward Baxter Perry, "The faithful protracted
study of a higher branch of art, even though it never
results in financial profit or professional success, will
develop faculties and tendencies of more advantage to
the student, and to all who may come in contact with
him in private life, than any amount of algebra or any
number of Greek roots."

This protracted study of art is the privilege of the few;
but an elementary musical training in our public schools
would often lead on to its higher pursuit, besides arous-
ing those finer faculties which tend more directly to
develop character in its incipient stage. The educating of
youth have a twofold task to perform. They must train
the mind and form the character. The germ of character
lies enfolded in the emotional nature and the will. It is
influenced, bent, moulded in its earliest years; later,
the reasoning faculty becomes active; and when the
judgment slowly mounts her throne, we have the well-
rounded, evenly developed, symmetrical man or woman.
It seems strange to have rung the claims of music as
an educational factor, when our most advanced edu-
cators "fall into line in all other studies save that of
sight-singing, and having it taught as an essential ele-
ment of education. We would send music to every home
in the land as a messenger of love, peace, and good will
to man, through the agency of the little child. Some
brightness will linger in the gloomiest home where a
child carols its innocent song.

Teach the child to sing in its earliest years, in the
public school, in the home, and in church, and as we
become a more musical people, we will certainly become
better and happier, for music is the

Art Divine!
Heav'ns own appointed messenger!
Soother of sorrows, sweet'ner,
Brighter, safer, softer than the wind,
Companion of our solitude!
What are the hours, O thou bereft?
Or what is Music, if thou art not!

MRS. W. J. HAMLETT

THE VALUE OF PUPILS' MUSICALES IN
CULTIVATING CONFIDENCE.

Some time ago, I noticed an article in THE ETUDE on
"Diffidence in Playing before Others." I would say,
from observation and experience, that in no other way
will diffident pupils so quickly gain confidence to play
before others with any satisfaction to themselves or their
listeners, as by taking part at musicales. I often give pu-
pils' recitals, where only my music students are present,
thus leading the way for them to play at musicales
without feeling so great a degree of embarrassment. As
they become more accustomed to playing before an
audience, they cease to feel the presence of the people as at
first, and, consequently, are better enabled to concen-
trate their minds on their music. I think it is a good way
to have the more confident pupils play a first in son or
six-hand pieces with those that are less diffident. Thus
they will gradually gain confidence without their nervous-
ness being quite so apparent.

Many pupils are anxious to play before an audience so
that people may see what they can do. By giving them
an opportunity, and so furnishing an occasion for the ex-
ercise of their powers, they are stimulated to work with
greater zeal and energy to prepare themselves, and are
inspired to try to play more artistically; for I notice they
are much more careful to pay attention to all points of
execution if they know that the piece is for public use.
To be sure, it makes more work for the teacher, but,
through the pupils becoming so much more interested,
parents are led to give more thought to music, and as the
audiences are made up of parents and musical friends,
the parents naturally feel a pride in seeing their children
do well before the public.

The teacher by giving musicales, often with pro-
grammes of real merit, can do much toward elevating the
taste in the community, and an elevated taste means
more and better pupils, and those who study longer and
become good performers, instead of mere dabblers. Peo-
ple who have never heard much good music, only waltzes,
marches, "Sweet Bye-and-Bye," "Annie Laurie," and
what they call "a tune with variations," which, perhaps,
are well enough in their places, can never like or ap-
preciate the better class of music, except by hearing it
often. A lady said only a short time ago, "That the first
few times I heard a programme of classical music, I
thought it extremely dry, and kept my eyes open; I
played through something with more melody. After a
little I began to notice the difference between those pieces
and that tinkly ones I had been more accustomed to hear,
and, finally, learned to prefer classical music." In cities
the people have frequent opportunities to hear the
highest class of music. Consequently, ear and taste are
cultivated to enjoy such. I would heartily urge teachers to
do all they can to let the people hear more often the bet-
ter class of music.

Teachers who are progressive enough to give consider-
able attention to this subject succeed in getting better
pupils, for they win the confidence of the people as being
thorough, conscientious teachers. Parents have come to
me saying, they had been besieged by other teachers, who
wished their children to take lessons of me, for they had
heard my pupils play in public, and knew that only a
good teacher could train them to play as they did. Some
of my pupils have been called to play at other entertain-
ments, and at the closing exercises of schools, as the
same pieces I had spent so much time in training for, the
these musicales — It might be some time after they had
played them in private, that they were known as my pu-
pils; thus the people could see how I had trained them.
So, for teacher, pupil and patrons, I claim that musicales are
of great benefit.

C. A. C.

Deviation from the ideal is deformity. When we
learn the ideal, and seek it, we become more noble or
artistic. The masters, if thoroughly studied, begin
activity which is delicate and strong. Poetry will warm
one's heart, science will enlarge his mind, and contem-
plation will develop his imagination. Such a student
will thrive. — F. L. QUINTIN.

Description of non-textual images and page elements:
- The page is a facsimile of a printed periodical page titled "THE ETUDE." centered at the top with decorative typographic ornamentation. The page number "137" appears in the upper right corner.
- There are three columns of dense printed text separated by narrow gutters. Column headings "MUSIC FOR THE MASSES." and "THE VALUE OF PUPILS' MUSICALES IN CULTIVATING CONFIDENCE." appear in bold type above the middle and right columns respectively.
- A short decorative ornament or small rule appears beneath the poem "Art Divine!" and the author's name is printed beneath it.
- The scan shows wear: faint speckling, spotty print, and slight darkening at page edges; there are no photographs or illustrative drawings on the page.
138
THE ETUDE.

VALUE OF PUPILS' RECITALS.

There is, perhaps, no difficulty more commonly met with by teachers of music than the lack in their pupils of real ambition and a determined purpose to excel in their work. While it is true that there are many exceptions, still, how great a number of those who are taking music lessons to-day are doing so merely because an education is not considered quite complete without a little knowledge of music — sufficient at least to enable them to perform a few pieces for the amusement of themselves and friends.

To the zealous and enthusiastic teacher, with a devoted love for his art, this question of arousing in his pupils a desire for something more than a mere "smattering" of music is of the first importance. To impart zeal, to awaken ambition and to stimulate to stronger efforts toward higher attainments, is as important a part of the true teacher's work as the teaching of a correct method of playing or singing. The means employed in accomplishing this desired result may be many. One which is well found most effective in arousing ambition and enthusiasm among pupils, and in giving a fresh impetus to their work, is the giving of pupils' recitals. Even if there is not at first a genuine love of study for its own sake, in being brought out before others their pride is thus appealed to and an incentive given for better work. In these recitals pupils obtain broader ideas of music than their own individual study alone could possibly give them. They become critics as well as performers. They will quickly recognize faults in others which same faults have perhaps often been passed by unheeded in themselves; and in like manner the excellences in another's performance will be marked, and will stimulate to renewed and increased effort.

These recitals should not partake too much of the nature of exhibitions, in which the pupil is obliged to strain every nerve in the attempt to learn some "showy" piece that is far beyond his powers of execution. We have heard pupils struggle through long and difficult pieces (when they were fortunate enough to reach the end without utterly breaking down) which none but an artist could have truly interpreted. This is discouraging to the pupil, and is far from being enjoyable or satisfactory to those who listen. So, first of all, the pupils should only be given such pieces to play as, with a reasonable amount of good, earnest study, they will be able to play well.

Teachers may hold the recitals in their own music rooms, or in the parlors of some patron, inviting the parents and friends whom they wish to attend, and this will be found much pleasanter than giving the recital in a more public place, at least in the beginning, when pupils are naturally somewhat timid, and the very thought of "playing on the stage" would strike terror to the hearts of those who, by these semi-public recitals, would gradually gain the confidence and ability which would enable them to play with ease before a larger audience.

Parents are always pleased to have their children brought forward when they feel that they have ability in any given direction; and to thoroughly awaken the parents' interest in the child's musical studies is to insure an important factor in the achievement of success and in the probability of the child studying longer.

It is always pleasant to have at these recitals either printed or written programmes to distribute among those invited, as they will be found to add much to the general interest. If it can be arranged to have two or three vocal selections, or pieces on the violin or flute, to intersperse among the piano numbers, this will give a pleasing variety to what might otherwise prove to be a little monotonous.

It will be found a very good idea to have, aside from these recitals to which parents and friends are invited, an occasional meeting together of the pupils for rehearsals, to play merely before themselves and teacher. On these occasions, let the teacher also play some sonata or other classical work, preceded by words of analysis or explanation, which will add to the interest and appreciation of its performance.

In the giving of pupils' recitals the teacher may, indeed, be obliged to expend an extra amount of time and labor, but the teacher who is more interested in watching the progress of the time as it advances toward the termination of the lesson hour, than he is in the real progress which his pupil is making, is certainly not the one who succeeds best, either educationally or financially. It is the whole-souled teacher, who strives in every way for the real advancement of his pupils in knowledge and appreciation of our beloved art, whose work will tell, both to the advantage of others as well as of himself.
May Woolver.

PUPILS' MUSICALES.
THEIR ADVANTAGES TO THE PUPIL, TO THE COMMUNITY AND TO THE TEACHER.

Although I cannot boast of a long experience in the department of musical work which forms the subject of this article, it has been of sufficient length to convince me of its importance as a factor in musical education and culture. In fact the custom of giving musicales is of comparatively recent date, and is only one of many evidences of the rapid advancement made by the American people during the past few years in the art of music.

In using the term musicale I do not refer to the non-descript social gatherings to which this title, for want of a better, is frequently applied — an entertainment having no higher aim than the enjoyment of a pleasant evening — but to the musicale, properly so called, planned and directed by the teacher with a definite purpose, viz., the advancement of the pupils under his or her care, and the cultivation of a more refined musical sentiment in the community. Viewed in this light, the musicale stands in the same relation to the community in which it exists as does the State or National Music Teachers' Association to our country in general, and teachers who are so conservative as to ignore the necessity for and advantages of such means fail not only to appreciate, but to grasp the valuable opportunities for improvement and usefulness offered by them.

Are musicales an advantage to the pupil, and in what way?

First, I think they are of value in awakening enthusiasm. Time and again the question comes to our minds, "How can we arouse the enthusiasm of pupils?" "Ay, there's the rub!" How often do teachers rack their brains in vain for the solution of this vexing problem? The bright, attentive, industrious pupil is an inspiration to the teacher, but the listless, apathetic one is the despair, even after every effort.

It is not within the province of this article to discuss the extent to which this lack of interest on the part of the pupil may be the fault of the teacher — or the many possible remedies for the evil.

But experience and observation have taught me that the musicale is one great incentive to enthusiasm, supplying often a much needed motive power. To children — and to "children of a larger growth" — there is a certain pleasing fascination in the thought of appearing before their friends in after hours, and it appeals to the pride innate in every human being, and the natural desire to do the very best of which they are capable creates new interest and zeal.

I have found that with some object of this kind before them, pupils will practice with diligence and attention what they would otherwise pass over in a careless, slovenly manner. Some may say it is too low a motive. I do not advocate the use of such means alone; but, if, in this way, we can stimulate interest, can so stir the enthusiasm of the pupil, and thereby help to form habits of concerted and systematic practice, the end is accomplished.

If this incentive can be made the thin end of the wedge by which to separate the thick walls of indifference, may there not be hope that through the aperture thus made the great light of musical truth shall stream in? Another advantage to pupils is, that by this means habitual timidity may be overcome, and they will gradually acquire that ease and self-possession, not self-assurance, without which they cannot sing or play in public with satisfaction to themselves or others. How many good musicians are so hampered by nervousness and self-consciousness as to be unable to perform in the presence of others that which, but for this, they are capable of doing well? The discipline which the semi-public musicale affords is well calculated to overcome this serious difficulty.

What is the effect of such gatherings upon the community? It cannot be otherwise than beneficial. But what I have to say applies rather to the smaller communities — where there is great need of some refining influence — than to the larger towns and cities where centre all the advantages of culture.

In the smaller communities the opportunities for hearing good music are limited, and the music teachers are largely responsible for the status of musical sentiment. They have it in their power, to a great extent, to mould the public taste and lead it to an appreciation of better music.

Is not such a power God-given, and should it not be used conscientiously? Most people like to be amused and entertained, therefore bring them together in this capacity — the teacher, the pupils, parents, friends. Prepare for their entertainment a pleasing programme of good music. Thus linked together by a bond of common interest, you have a strong hold upon their attention, which, by judicious management, you can deepen and confirm.

I do not think it wise to attempt at first to force upon an audience of this kind music entirely beyond their understanding. There is a "happy medium" between worthless trash and the strictly classical style, which I believe can be employed to advantage here. Needed reforms can only be brought about gradually. So in music; we cannot revolutionize public taste in a day.

Would it not be well for teachers everywhere to adopt the plan already proposed by many, of systematizing this work — arranging a definite plan, not only for public musicales, but for a series of musical evenings with their pupils, according as varying circumstances and resources may suggest?

I was indebted to the first President of the New York State Music Teachers' Association for hints which first led me to applying this like system to this work. Acting upon his suggestions, I formed my pupils and a few musical friends into a class, meeting fortnightly at the homes of different members. We took as a basis for our study Mathews' "How to Understand Music," and following that course our evenings naturally took on the form of a Lecture Recital, in a modest way. Occasionally we were varied this by introducing musical literature; often interesting matter from THE ETUDE, or a biographical sketch of some celebrated musician.

As an accessory, or accompaniment, of this class work, I arranged occasional musicales, during the winters, two musicales, to which we invited our friends. To illustrate the point that such efforts are beneficial, and are appreciated, let me quote, from a local paper, a criticism upon one of these musicales. After mentioning the musicale of the evening, the writer says: "The pupils, of the private work of the class, into which he had inquired, and then says: 'An immediate result of this method is, the participants are now able to take their places before their friends and relatives, and the friends of the scholars are invited, and if an evening can be spent more profitably and pleasantly, I have yet to learn of it. The indications of interest and improvement which I have pointed out (incident they may be) are, undoubtedly, a direct result of the New York State Music-Teachers' Association held in Hudson in June, 1880, as particular emphasis was placed upon this point along the line of the meetings. And in making a practical application of the theories there advanced, this teacher is receiving the object of the Association. All praise to the individual instructors who can look above and beyond the pecuniary advantages of the position, and for very love of the art, seek for themselves, and for those who look to them for instruction, a higher degree of attainment which it offers.'"

This leads to a consideration of the advantages resulting to the teacher.

First, the satisfaction of knowing that we have aided, even to little, in advancing our Art.

[The remainder of the last column toward the bottom of the page is faint and partially obscured; some lines and words are illegible in the scanned image and could not be transcribed with confidence.]

Description of non-textual elements:
- Page header: centered at top in large capitals "THE ETUDE." On the left of the header is the page number "138" (with a small rotated mark). A thin decorative rule runs under the header across the page.
- Layout: three-column newspaper-style page with narrow margins and dense justified text. Column separators are faint or absent; columns are separated by white space only.
- There are no photographs or illustrations on the page; only typographic ornamentation such as rules and slightly heavier type for headings. The paper texture, faint spotting, and a few small dark smudges from the scan are visible.
THE ETUDE. 139

Then, too, the true teacher, in seeking to direct the minds of others, will also be led into deeper channels of thought. In aiming to develop the tastes of others, self-development must follow as a natural consequence.

Nor can we ignore the pecuniary benefits that must accrue. The teachers who keep pace with the progress of the times, who investigate and study the best methods, who employ every available means for self-improvement, and to promote the interests of their pupils, must win the confidence of the intelligent public.

As a result, the better class of pupils will be intrusted to their care. Such teachers will not be under the necessity of soliciting patronage.

In this idea of pupils' musicalness, I think, exists the germ of possibilities which might be unfolded and elaborated with good results.
OMA N. MORRISON.

EDITORIAL NOTES.

It is not generally understood what beautiful effects result from combining the piano and reed-organ in ensemble playing. It is not a difficult matter to tune the two instruments together. French and German publishers furnish a great amount of the finest music arranged for these two instruments, also in combination with other instruments, as the piano and organ with the violin, cornet, clarionet, etc. The American people are given too much to the piano. Where there is more than one in the family to learn music, it is desirable that one should learn violin, flute or violoncello. With the piano, violin, and violoncello, it is entirely feasible to play much of the concerted music of the great masters, as they wrote quantities of trios for these three instruments, and these pieces include some of their best compositions. The Boehm flute is becoming a very popular instrument, and it is especially adapted to young ladies; as much so as the violin. Many young women are learning the violoncello, although it is not for them so graceful an instrument. It is a common thing in the towns of Germany, to find families practicing trios and quartettes, as above suggested, thus spending an evening in a profitable and interesting manner. Where there are not members enough in the family, friends will meet together for frequent practice. We call the attention of parents to the fact that nothing makes home more attractive than such music, and it thus becomes a saving grace.

In the following quotation from The Leader, where the writer speaks of the success of teachers educated at conservatories, he misses some significant facts, which are, that those pupils who have a little mother-wit about them soon see that clear class lessons are worth but little to them, and so take private or individual lessons of the best conservatory teachers. Another half objection is seldom mentioned, and this condemns the entire class system; it is, that if at the beginning of the term a class could be evenly graded, they would in a few weeks work away from each other. The talented pupil is held back for the dullard, and the latter is hurried along too fast a pace for him to do thorough work; and again, no two pupils need exactly the same course; but the class system holds an unbinding course for each student within its walls; or, if each pupil-of the class has a different set of pieces and individual courses, why not take private lessons of ten to twenty minutes, and so have the teacher under the best of circumstances? Why keep up the farce of class lessons?

It has come to be quite a question, now, which is the better system of study, the private or the conservatory system? Many educators hold that the class is the more desirable form of instruction, chiefly on account of the advantage gained by seeing the principles involved in the lesson applied to varying minds and on an equal degree of development. But another and quite as strong an argument in favor of this form is, that it makes people of moderate income are enabled to receive instruction of the very best teachers; and fifteen minutes with a first-class instructor is better than an hour with an inferior one. On the other hand, some very good professional teachers, even some of those who are engaged in the class system, say it does not amount to anything, because so little time can be allotted to any individual that it is scarcely possible to become sufficiently acquainted with individual needs. This may be true to some extent, possibly more so in some departments than in others.

Another objection which has been offered to the conservatory system is, that as the institution is governed by one head, all the teachers are selected according to one man's ideas, and, it takes a man of phenomenal education to know what is best in the way of teachers for every department of music. There is, doubtless, some weight due this objection also; but when the whole matter is summed up, and a glance is taken at the really enormous amount of work done by the conservatories, and the great number of teachers of professional musicians at work in the country who have received their instruction from the faculties at the conservatories, it seems that, on the whole, the conservatory is accountable for the greater amount of good work.

We are careful to educate our children, so that they may enjoy reading, and be improved by the master-pieces of literature. Why not be as desirous to have them able to read and interpret the deeper and more refining thoughts of the classical composers? A strong plea is made for this in the article, "The Influence of School Music on Piano Pupils," by Miss J. E. Crane. We have requested writers to present this subject of Music in the Public Schools, and bespeak the active interest of our readers. Mrs. W. J. Hammett approaches the subject from another standpoint, and makes a strong plea for the children of the crowded streets of our cities and in the neglected lanes of the country.

In the articles on Pupil Musicals and Recitals, which were written at our request, will be found much of value to the ambitious and progressive teacher. From a personal experience of about twenty-five years, in which many hundreds of such musicals have been given, we wish to add a word of recommendation, yes, to urge all teachers to give their patrons and the public the advantages growing out of these public efforts of their pupils.

MR. PERRY gives us more of his vigorous thoughts on "What shall we Play?" He makes clear the limitations to which all pupils are subjected. Right here many teachers fail, lamentably fall in their selection of music for the particular needs and possibilities of their pupils. Mr. Perry gives an admirable paragraph on Objective and Subjective Playing. He promises us another article on "What Shall We Play?" considered from the pupils' standpoint, in which he will make many practical suggestions, and name particular pieces for special purposes.

AGAIN we present the views of two of the best writers and teachers on "Music Study Abroad." The well-known conservatorium of the German mind, is a factor to be considered. There is no doubt that American teachers of the first class can be, sure, and much quicker and better than the teachers abroad. Our best teachers are not troubled with the complaisant feeling of "knowing it all." But are actively alert in seeking out and applying every improvement in methods. Besides the many points brought out by these writers, any careful parent will consider the matter seriously before sending his child abroad, where he can have none of the helps, refinements and restraints of home-life. Talent, genius, and great mental and musical acquirements are desirable, but all worthless if not coupled with a sterling integrity of character.

An encouraging sign of the times is the growing popularity of Music Festivals. They not only furnish instruction and valuable practice to the members of the chorus, but bring the people into a closer acquaintance with some of the grandest creations of the greatest masters. When vocal music in the Public Schools becomes universal, such societies will flourish, and Tonic Sol-fa is making this more and more a near possibility.

Those of our readers who are interested in vocal music, will find "The Voice Quarterly," Frank H. Butts publisher, 43 East 14th Street, N. Y. City, a good journal; only fifty cents a year. Mr. Theda gives some of his space to the art of teaching voice culture.

American Conservatories of Music for Americans, is an idea that is fast gaining force and strength. From an extended correspondence with these conservatories, we learn of increased Faculties and new departments added. Of chief importance in these additions are the Normal Courses, where pupils are taught the art of teaching music. This is an important step, and has in it a power to elevate musical art in our country at a faster rate than ever before. Few students of music realize that a thorough knowledge of music is not all that is requisite for making a good teacher. Not only must there be a comprehensive working knowledge of the art, but a complete acquaintance with the processes of its acquirement, and of how to successfully guide a pupil in each and every step of his progress. Hence, the importance of learning the "art of teaching music."

ALL progressive and thinking teachers have little ways of presenting truths to their pupils; ideas, methods of teaching certain things; hobbies that they ride successfully, and methods of procedure that they prize. We ask these teachers to take the time to write these good ideas up for THE ETUDE, taking time to write, re-write, and condense them, so that their thoughts are clearly expressed. The desire is to bring out truths, much as the debates of the Musical Associations are so successfully doing. It sometimes comes to pass that the debates bring out truths of more practical worth than those considered in the original essay, and so here we expect many valuable hints of practical help.

The banjo has had its day. Every musician will be glad, for sensitive ears find but little pleasure in the twang of this instrument. There is no doubt but the study of pianoforte music is too universal, and that our young people neglect, too generally, the violin, violoncello, and flute.

BELIEVING that teachers secure more and better pupils in a musical community, we have with this month given a grand deal of space to School Music and Pupil's Musicals. In the October issue we intend to present some articles on Musical Clubs, or Musical Societies for Mutual Improvement. But although the "selfish element" may be as strong in us music teachers as it is in other people, yet we have a "better side" to us, and thoroughly believe in the mission of music, and in its power to elevate and make better and happier our people. When we are working to make our our community more musical we are making it more moral, and truly refined, as well.

If, when sending questions to our Question and Answer department, our correspondents will append their full name and address, as well as a fictitious name or initials, we will always answer their questions. If your questions have not been answered, you may see the reason why in the above. We answer through THE ETUDE only such questions as will convey general information, and will be of worth to a large number of our readers. We aim to make this department of practical worth. We invite our readers to forward such interesting facts as they are invited, and we will have leading musicians answer them. Please ask your questions on a separate sheet of paper, writing on one side only.

The subscribers asking for information about the American College of Musicians, will find full and complete answers in another column. These questions were referred to one of "high authority," and can be taken as an official manifesto on this subject.

LETTER FROM A PROGRESSIVE TEACHER.

A TEACHER, in ordering some books, says: "I wish to know the best plan of teaching young children, what to begin with, and how to conduct their progress so as to keep them interested and make the work sure? I have heard much of the Tonic Sol-fa and other systems; which is best?" The question is an old one, and can only be answered in part by general rules. In the first place, a child should be made to feel that music-study is something delightful and pleasant. It is best to begin with the ear and voice, and make the child sing and listen before being loaded with technicalities. Use short simple pieces, games, and rhythmic exercises. Let all scale work be made subordinate to melody and expression. After the child has gained an interest in tunes and can sing in tune, proceed to notation in a simple staff, and connect the notes with the sung sounds. Avoid overloading the pupil with theory. Teach by constant illustration, and let the study be practical. Above all, be patient and persistent. The teacher who gains the child's confidence and makes practice pleasant will get the most rapid and permanent results. As to any one system of notation or method, take from each what is best: good melodies, thorough ear-training, and abundant practice in expression and rhythm are the essential things.

(End of visible text in the letter; remainder of the page contains small notices and a subscription or advertising line which is partly illegible in the scan.)

Description of non-textual elements:
- The image is a scanned black-and-white page from a periodical titled "THE ETUDE." There are no photographs or illustrations on the page; the layout consists entirely of printed text in three narrow columns with headings. The paper shows signs of age: slight darkening at the margins and some minor spots and speckles, but no separate pictorial elements. The page number "139" appears at the top right. The masthead "THE ETUDE." is centered at the top.
140

THE ETUDE.

L'ARPA.
MELODY FOR THE PIANOFORTE, COMPOSED BY JOACHIM
RAFF, OP. 17.
LESSON BY CHAS. W. LANDON.

In measures 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15 the tenor notes
are the melody, and therefore must be brought out dis-
tinctly, by a pulling touch, with the fingers close to the
keys. Listen for these tones, criticising their quality
rather than power; also, that they are closely connected
to the measures following; that is, measures 2, 4, 6, 8,
10, 12, 14 and 16, where the Introduction ends. In
these evenly numbered measures the chord on the first
count of each is to be played with a loosely yielding
wrist, and with a bearing down of the arms, meantime
closing the fist quickly. This will give a brilliant tone
that is not crashy nor hard. The chords on the second
and third counts of each of these even numbered meas-
ures must be felt down softly, with both hands exactly
together. By feeling down the keys in this way, the
fingers, being close to the keys, are to be gently drawn
towards the palm; this produces a clear and yet a very
soft tone. While playing these two counts the chord on
the first count is to be held with the pedal and to be
distinctly heard throughout the measure. Observe that the
first count of each evenly numbered measure contains
the melody for the whole measure, and that the chords
on the second and third counts of these measures are an
accompaniment, hence the reason for the difference in
power and manner of touch; a double difference result-
ing, one of power and the other of quality of tone.

From measures 17 to 32 is the next part of the piece,
or rather the first part or Theme (pronounced táy-may).
In the measures with odd numbers, as 17, 19, etc., the
first count gives the melody to the R. H., while in the
second and third counts the melody is in the L. H., ex-
cept that the last sixteenth of the R. H. is a melody
note. Of course, the melody is to be clearly heard, but
it must not be forced in the least. For the right con-
trast, both in quality and power in these first counts of
the R. H. in each measure from 17 to 32, snap the finger
that takes the melody; that is, close this finger into the
palm of the hand spitefully. In passing it brings the
key down with it, thus giving a clear, bell-like tone,
while the other tones of the same chord are soft and
correctly fulfill their office of an accompaniment. The
L. H. in the second and third counts of these measures
has the melody, which is to be taken with the thumb,
which must be entirely loose and without tension or
resistance, making its tones with the help of the loose
arm, which will give a full tone without harshness, mel-
low and flute-like. Mr. Goldberg has fingered this for the
thumb on each three of these keys, but a better usage
would be to place the second finger on the second of
these three tones, and the thumb on the first and last of
the three. If the second finger is used, pull the key
down with a heavy pull and non-resisting and loose
wrist and arm.

In the second and third counts of each measure from
17 to 32—except measures 28, 24 and 31—the R. H.
plays softly with arpeggiated chords. It will say here that
the correct name is arpeggio chords, and not "harp,"
"wave" or "spreading" chords. Right here is a
chance for one of the effects that artists produce,
but where most amateurs fail. I would suggest that the
pupil place the fingers over these keys and, beginning
with the thumb, draw each finger gently towards the
palm, letting each key speak softly, evenly and clearly,
and each of even power and an equal distance apart. The
whole arm, wrist, hand and each finger is to be loose and
nerveless. Arpeggioed chords, when the upper note
contains the melody, as in measures 18, 20, etc., should

crease, as the tones run upwards, so that the melody may
be heard last and the stronger. This is why composers
write chords with the wavey lines, but in the above in-
stances, in the second and third counts, these chords
contain no melody, therefore each tone is of equal
power.

What has been said about the R. H., second and third
counts applies equally to the L. H. in measures 18-20,
etc., but the first counts of these measures have ex-
tended chords, which are a great help—so to many pupils.
They bring out the thumb note with a harsh bang and

often omit the lower bass note unconsciously, and all of the
notes are played unevenly. To do them rightly, let the
hand be in repose, perfectly loose not with fingers
extended in the least. Let the wrist be quite a good
deal higher than usual. Now carry the whole hand up-
wards towards the treble, but make the arm go faster
than the fingers, thus bending the wrist inwards the
same as if your L. H. was playing the upper part of the
keyboard; feel down the desired keys as your fingers
pass them and let your loose thumb slide off of the last
or upper key. This gives out each tone clearly but
softly, and your fingers are at no time extended. Note
that when you extend the fingers widely your wrist is
surely stiffened, and good playing is impossible with a
stiff and unyielding wrist.

In measures 24 the thumb must be clear, yet so light
that you hear the chord and its melody tone through the
end of the measure. Make the point of each finger
move towards the palm slightly but quickly. This gives
the clear flute-like tone without overmuch power, yet
the movement brilliant and bright. By the way, note this,
that correct ways for all rapid, soft and clear runs and
good runs require that the two end joints of the fingers,
the nail and middle joints, shall do most of the work
and nearly all of the motion.

Measures 19 and 20 are a repetition of 17 and 18, as
are to be somewhat their order, because reiterations must
be remembered unless otherwise marked.

Crescendo unless otherwise marked.

Bear in mind throughout this piece that you are sup-
posed to simulate the harp. The chords of measures 82,
83, etc., the second part of the piece, are written pur-
posely thin, or of few notes, to help in this desired effect
of thinnesse. The half notes of these measures are a
consonance, and are therefore to receive an accent.

The runs in these measures are to have the touch and
quality of tone described for measure 24.

In measures 40 to 48 notice that the first half of the
counts have chords, but that the last half of the counts
are octaves only. In the chords put something of a
springy resistance in the thumb and the fifth finger, so
that these tones and especially the upper ones, shall be
fuller and more distinct than its inner notes. But surely
keep a loose wrist in doing this. A large hand can close
in the thumb and fifth finger towards the palm and make
these tones better than by the method of touch first de-
scribed. The runs of the L. H. are to Cres. in ascend-
ing and Dim. in descending, but only moderately so
when in an accompaniment. This is a general rule.

From measures 49 to 64 there is a variation on the
Theme. Listen for the melody notes, those with a doted
stem, and bring them out with the loose thumb touch de-
scribed above. If you do this rightly, there will be a
vocal-quality in the tone. When the thumb comes in
contact with the key it is to be somewhat rested at its
stops and waits for the loose wrist and arm to drag the
key down for it, during which it slips off the keyboard
towards the palm, quickly, bringing out the tone as it
leaves the key. This calls for some life and vivacity of
movement in the nail joint of the thumb, but extreme
looseness at the joint where it is joined to the wrist or
hand. The object is to let the first movement of the
key be very slow with an increase of velocity down to
its lowest depth. And this is the secret of a good touch
of any kind. Poor touch is caused by the reverse; the
key starts at its greatest velocity from the highly raised
finger with a sudden and hard stroke, or with a stiff
hand, wrist and arm. When these latter are loose enough
there is a collapse or giving out, so to speak, that allows
the key to start slowly and continue its descent with an
increased velocity. Various modifications of the above
give all of the qualities of tone known to the pianoforte.
Touch and one quality is all, in an artistic blending of
looseness or non-resistance with its opposite. But the
work and difficulty is in all acquiring the looseness. The
Practice Clavier and the Technicon are invaluable for the
acquiring of the artistic touch. One supplements the
other, and he who can be well taught by the pupil should
use both.

The accompaniment of chords immediately following
the melody notes is needed carefully attention. Feel them
down rather than strike them. Let each finger give an
equal and uniform pressure and draw the fingers off the
key with the bend or motion mostly in their two end
joints, the nail and middle joints. By this you gain surety
with delicacy, a necessary accomplishment. But surely
make every key sound exactly simultaneously. You will
see that the L. H. needs careful reading to separate those
notes that have melody from those that are accompanied
only. The melody notes have two stems. The half
notes need more emphasis than the shorter notes. This
is a general rule, worth remembering.

From measures 65 to 80, there is a modification of the
music found from measures 33 to 48. The L. H. runs
are to be as before described. The Italian expression
marc., "marcato," means concordant, harmoniously;
thus calling for a fine quality of touch. The E-flat of
the last R. H. group of measure 67 is a melody note.

In measures 72, 74 and 76 the melody is in the eighth
notes, and the first of each two is struck with the chord
and not after, as notation would seem to indicate. The
manner of doing this calls for remark. For in

stance, in measures 72 strike each note of the chord,
E-flat, B-flat, C and E-flat (reading upwards), with equal
force, listening to the effect. Now, then, let the weight
of the arm be received by the finger that plays the
melody note, B-flat, and you will hear it clearly above
the rest of the chord. Again, not only letting this finger
that plays the melody note receive the weight of the arm,
but also snap it towards the palm, and this note will be
still more clear. Caution: surely strike every note of
these chords exactly together and allow no slant-
ness in the fingers that play the other keys of the chord.
The L. H. lowest bass notes are to be heard more dis-
tinctly than the next few notes. Remember that the be-
ginning, turning and ending notes of all runs are always
to receive something of an accent unless otherwise
marked, or else a run is but a meaningless noise. By
running notes is meant where the direction of the run
reverses, as at the C of the L. H. in middle of the second
group of measures in measures 68.

In measures 73, 75 and 76, snap the finger lightly that
plays the upper note of each chord, for the sake of a
clear and flute-like tone. In all arpeggiated chords let
the notes follow one another evenly and not bunchy or at
an irregular distance apart. This is of great importance
and almost always a fault of amateur playing; and some
artists fail in this also. There is a fine opportunity here
for the practice of this beautiful effect from measures 17
to 32 of this piece. The essentials are loose wrists and
hands; arms in easy repose, each finger to slightly move
its point or nail joint inwards towards the palm, critically
listening for evenness of power and an equal distant or
even distribution of the tones of the chord.

The chord of measures 80 is to be full and sonorous,
organ-like, but not a bang. To do this, place the fingers
on the keys to be played, with the wrists absolutely non-
resisting, then let the forearms drop or pull down, drag-
ging the keys with them, the wrists being so loose as to
collapse and hang down below the keyboard, with the
fingers clinging to the keys, and as they, the fingers,
begin to descend snap them inwards into closed fists.
The tone will roll out like that of a great organ, yet not
bashy or over-loud; and, singularly, it will be the great-
est power of tone that the instrument is capable of; yet
do not make it so very loud in this particular instance.
In the run that follows let it diminuendo in the same
ratio as the drying away of the chord.

The chords in the last two measures must be very soft
and the two hands, and the notes of each be exactly
simultaneous. A very common and bad fault is in al-
lowing one hand, generally the left, to strike ahead of
the other. See to it that you are not faulty in this.

From the beginning to measure 82 the Phrases are of
two measures each; from 33 to 48, of one measure; yet
in pairs of two, a part of the time, you can tell by listen-
ing. One measure seems to ask a question, which is
answered by the next. This question and answer is very
plain in some pieces. From measures 49 to 64 the
phrases are of two measures again, at the close of course
at 66 to measure 80.

Remember that every phrase has a climax, and that
this climax is the note or chord that should contain the
most intensity of meaning of any in the phrase, and that
the phrase is to be Crescendo up to its climax, after which
it Diminuendoes to its close. In the first 32 measures of
the piece, and from measures 40 to 64, the climax of
each phrase is the longer note (which is generally the
bass), and the Diminuendo comes from the natural dying
away of the chord tones.

Phrases should be separated by a pause, much as we
separate the parts of a sentence with a comma. See the
comma in the above sentence. Furthermore, the first
note of a phrase should be somewhat accented, regard-
less of what part of a measure it begins on, and its last
tone is to be especially soft, and shorter than written,
as if half of its length, when a short note was meant.
But not every emphasis, accent and climax is to be of
equal power. They must be graded according to the sen-
timent of the piece, and the trained cultivated and re-
fined taste and judgment of the player, and the per-
former. There is one of the marked differences between
good and common performers.

Finally, you have often heard it said, and so often
read in THE ETUDE, that a piece is only just begun when
it can be played through in time and without breaks or
mistakes, and that when a piece is brought up to that
point, the pupil is ready to begin to learn something
from the piece. Now, I ask you how it is possible for a
pupil to use the kinds of touch and produce the effects
above described until his mind is no further occupied
with the difficulties of reading and the mere play of the
notes? If the above directions are carried out, will he not
have mind, heart and hands full, even after he has the
"piece learned." Therefore, learn the piece before try-
ing whatever may be new to you in the way of touch or
effects, and learn the piece and new touches and ef-
fects by practicing over and over in short passages of
two to four measures. By this "passage work" you will
learn it quicker and better. It is the perfection of play-
ing that makes this or any other piece charming and
beautiful.

CHAS. W. LANDON.

Description of non-textual elements:
- The page is a scanned black-and-white print of a magazine page. Centered at the top is a large masthead reading "THE ETUDE." The page number "140" appears at the upper left. The content is arranged in three narrow columns of dense serif text with minimal spacing between columns. There are thin vertical rules (borders) at the left and right edges of the page. No photographic images or illustrations appear on the page; the only non-textual elements are typographic (headings, small decorative spacing and rules).
L'ARPA

MÉLODIE pour PIANO

mis pour usage de Concert
par R. Goldbeck.

Moderato : ♪ = 80.
fermo
poco forte

ben marcato la melodia

JOACHIM RAFF, Op. 17.

poco f
p
poco f
poco rit.
a tempo

Ped. (multiple occurrences under the staves)

Gts M.A.3d Y. 207.
Copyright, 1888, by Robert Goldbeck.

1

Description of non-textual content:
A single printed piano sheet-music page. Five systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass staves joined by braces) fill the page, containing musical notes, rests, fingerings, slurs, triplet brackets, dynamic markings (p, f, poco f, etc.), articulation markings, and numerous "Ped." pedal indications beneath measures. The engraving shows arpeggiated figures, chords, and ornamental passages typical of a Romantic-era piano melody. The paper has aged texture and darker borders/scanning artifacts around the edges.
Transcribed text (exact strings as they appear on the page):

2

Ped.  (repeated many times throughout the systems under the staves)

cresc.

8  (octave markers appear at several places, often with a dotted bracket)

33  (appears once above a group of notes)

40  (appears once above a group of notes)

Finger numbers (numerals used as fingering annotations, repeated throughout): 1 2 3 4 5 (individual numerals printed next to notes many times)

G's M.A.3d V. 208.

Description of non-textual content:

A scanned, slightly aged page of printed piano sheet music (grand staff) with multiple systems of treble and bass staves filling the page. The page shows standard musical notation: notes, beams, chords, slurs, accents, arpeggiation marks, dotted brackets indicating 8va/8vb passages, and many small finger-number annotations adjacent to notes. Pedal markings ("Ped.") appear repeatedly beneath measures. There are occasional rehearsal/measure numerals (e.g., 33, 40) and octave indicators ("8") above some passages. The sheet has visible aging and scanning artifacts: darkened edges, faint smudges and spots, a diagonal crease/line near the upper left, and slight shadowing along the right margin.
3

8
slargando
a tempo
p molto marcato il canto

Ped. (repeated many times under various measures)
8 (appears multiple times as octave marking above staves)
rit.
cresc.
1 2 3 4 (finger numbers over arpeggiated final figure)

G? M.A.3d Y. 209.

Description of non-textual content:
A single scanned page of piano sheet music with heavy black engraving on aged paper. The page contains multiple grand-staff systems (treble and bass clefs joined by braces), dense chordal and arpeggiated writing, many stems, beams, slurs, accents and dynamic markings. Numerous "Ped." pedal markings appear under the bass staves throughout. There are fingerings (small numerals) printed above and beside notes, octave markings (8) above several passages, and bracketed/oval groupings of rapid right-hand arpeggios in the final measures. The page edges are darkened from scanning; the notation is slightly speckled from age or scan noise.
4

pp armonioso

65

Ped.

67

68

Ped.

72

mf

74

mf

p

76

8

rit.

rall.

80

rall.

a tempo

pp

* Fine

Ped. (multiple occurrences throughout the systems)

mf, p, mp (dynamics appear throughout the page)

Fingerings (numerals 1 2 3 4 5 printed above and below many notes throughout)

(G's M. A. 3d Y. 210.) [small publisher/printing line at the lower left edge of the page]

Description of non-textual content:
A single page of piano sheet music (grand staff) with treble and bass clefs, many arpeggiated figures and sweeping broken-chord accompaniments. There are numerous slurs, pedaling marks (Ped. and bracket lines), dynamic markings, octave indications (8 or 8va above some passages), finger numbers adjacent to individual notes, and dense clusters of beamed notes. The music is printed on slightly aged paper with darker left margin and small speckling and wear around the edges. The final measure shows a cadential figure leading to the marking “Fine.”
TO
Miss Virginia Cecilia Davis.
BOSTON.

CECILIA GALOP.

By M. J. Messer, Op. 39.

5

[Printed piano score for "Cecilia Galop." The page contains five systems of grand-stave piano notation (treble and bass clefs). Visible printed text and markings on the score include dynamics and performance markings such as mf, p, f, cresc. hairpins, "tr" (trill) and numerous small fingerings (numbers) and articulation marks (slurs, staccato dots, accents). There is a small "2." above the last system indicating a second ending. The key signature shows two flats (B♭, E♭).]

CECILIA GALOP. - 7.

Copyright, 1890 by T. PRESSER. Phila., Pa.

Description of non-textual image:
The image is a single page from an antique printed piano music book. Centered at the top is a dedication line ("TO Miss Virginia Cecilia Davis. BOSTON.") and below that the title "CECILIA GALOP." in large bold type. To the right of the title is the composer credit "By M. J. Messer, Op. 39." and the page number "5" at the top right. The bulk of the page is engraved piano notation laid out in five grand staves (paired treble and bass staves) with bar lines, notes, rests, triplet brackets, and chordal accompaniment typical of piano salon music. Numerous editorial markings are present: finger numbers printed near many notes, dynamic markings (mf, p, f), slurs and phrasing curves, staccato dots and accents, hairpin crescendos/decrescendos, and at least one "tr" indicating a trill. A boxed bracket and a numeric "2." mark a second ending near the end of the systems. The engraving shows aged paper with some foxing and darkened margins; the right edge of the page has a black vertical scanner border. The overall look is that of a 19th-century engraved piano parlor piece.
Extracted text and textual markings found on the page (read left-to-right, top-to-bottom):

6.

Fingerings and small numeral annotations above notes (various occurrences throughout the staves): 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 (and many single digits 1, 2, 3, 4 near notes)

Dynamic and expressive markings found in the score (as printed):
ff
fz (several occurrences)
p
mf
> (accent marks appear throughout as articulation marks)
3 (triplet indication above groups)
1. 2. (repeat/alternative ending indications above a bracket)

Footer (lower-left corner):
CECILIA-GALOP.-7

Detailed description of the non-textual content:

This is a scanned page of piano sheet music showing multiple staves for grand-staff (treble and bass clefs) with standard musical notation: measures of notes, chords, beams, rests, slurs, ties, triplet groupings, accent marks, and repeat/alternative-ending brackets. The page appears aged with some speckling and darker borders from the scan. The top-left shows the page number "6." The music contains repeated rhythmic left-hand accompaniment figures and right-hand melodic passages with many finger-number annotations above individual notes. There are boxed/branched alternate endings labeled "1." and "2." above a staff near the middle of the page. Dynamics such as ff, fz, p, and mf are placed above/below staves at appropriate points. Triplet markers (the small "3") appear above grouped notes. The lower left corner has the printed title/identifier "CECILIA-GALOP.-7". The right margin of the page shows a dark vertical strip from the scan.
Extracted text (verbatim) with approximate location on the page:
- 7 (page number, upper right)
- f (dynamic marking, upper staff)
- TRIO. (left margin, before second system)
- p (under "TRIO.", indicating piano dynamic)
- pp leggiero. (right end of second system)
- f (dynamic marking, in lower systems)
- CECILIA GALOP. 7. (lower left corner)

Non-textual image description (detailed):
- A scanned black-and-white page of printed piano sheet music, slightly skewed and aged with edge darkening (heavy dark vertical band along the right margin) and speckling/noise across the page.
- The music is arranged in a grand staff (paired treble and bass staves) repeated in five systems down the page. Each system has a brace at the left connecting the treble (G) and bass (F) clefs.
- Key signature appears to be two flats (B♭ and E♭) on the staves. Time signature is not clearly visible in the crop.
- Notation includes many standard musical symbols: beamed and single eighth notes and sixteenth notes, quarter notes, rests, chords, ledger lines, ties and slurs, staccato dots, accent marks (>), and dynamic markings (f, p, pp). There are small editorial or performance marks (accents, hairpins) above and below certain notes.
- The second system is labeled "TRIO." and shows a lighter, more delicate texture (p, then pp leggiero).
- The engraving style is 19th-century/early print: serifed type for text, barlines and measure groupings clearly printed, occasional smudges and small hand-corrections or darker ink spots near some notes.
- Bottom of page shows the piece title/identifier "CECILIA GALOP. 7." printed in small capitals at the left margin.
Extracted text:
8
f
pp leggiero.
CECILIA GALOP.-7.

Description of non-textual image content:
A single page of printed piano sheet music (page number 8 in the top left). The page contains seven grand-stave systems (treble and bass clefs bracketed together) with standard musical notation: key signature of two flats (B-flat major/G minor), time signature implied by recurring grouped eighth-note patterns, numerous bars of mostly repeated rhythmic motifs, block chords in the right hand and accompanying left-hand bass notes, slurs/ties over long notes, and repeated eighth-note figures. The notation shows dynamics and articulations (staccato markings, accents) and a long sustained bass note tied across measures in several systems. The page is aged/toned with speckling and darker edges, a heavy dark strip along the left margin, and some smudging at the lower right. The bottom left has small printed title text (“CECILIA GALOP.-7.”). The final system ends with the direction “pp leggiero.”
Extracted text:
9

CECILIA GALOP. -7.

Additional textual musical markings visible (as printed in the score): mf, f, p (dynamics) and small finger numbers (e.g. 1, 2, 3, 5) associated with notes.

Description of non-textual image:
A scanned page of piano sheet music (single page, slightly aged/blemished paper with darkened right margin). The page shows five grand-staff systems (treble and bass clefs) of engraved notation: measures of melody in the right hand with accompanying left-hand broken-chord patterns. Key signature shows two flats (B♭, E♭). The notation includes slurs and ties, staccato dots, accents, triplet groupings (bracketed “3”), and numerous dynamic markings (mf, f, p). Finger-number markings appear above and below many notes. The top-right corner bears the page number “9.” The bottom-left corner contains the printed title/identifier “CECILIA GALOP. -7.” The score has small speckles and smudges consistent with an older printed music page.
Extracted text (all visible text on the page):

10

mf
f
ff

CECILIA GALOP.-7.

Also visible as text-like markings: small finger-number numerals appearing above/beside some notes (1, 2, 3, 4).

Detailed description of non-textual content:

A full-page scan of a piano music score (grand staves) printed on aged paper. The page contains five systems of music (treble and bass staves paired), each with standard musical notation: clefs, key signatures, time signatures, many notes and chords, slurs, staccato and accent marks, tuplets/triplet brackets, ledger lines, and accidentals. Dynamics and expression markings (mf, f, ff) are placed above the staffs. Small fingerings (single-digit numerals) appear above some notes throughout the page. The sheet shows wear and aging: a darkened border, speckling and spots across the paper, and a shadow/crease along the right edge from the book binding. The lower-left corner contains the printed title/identifier "CECILIA GALOP.-7."
11

fz
fz
mf
p
mf
f

CODA.
accelerando.

CECILIA GALOP. 7

(Also many small musical numerals and markings visible throughout the notation, notably repeated "3" triplet marks above groups of notes and occasional small "8" indications above phrases.)

Description of non-textual image content:
A full page of engraved piano sheet music (grand staff: treble and bass clefs) with five systems of music plus a coda system near the bottom. The page shows horizontal staves with many notes: chords, eighth‑note and sixteenth‑note passages, beamed figures, accented notes, staccato dots, slurs and phrase markings, and triplet groupings. Repeated block chord figures appear in the right hand; the left hand has accompanying broken‑chord patterns. The coda section contains repeated rhythmic chordal figures and an accelerando marking above the staff, leading to final chords at the lower right. The page shows aging and scanning artifacts: faint speckling, darker border on the right edge, and general paper wear.
12

COME ON CALOP.

FOR PIANO.

Allegro.

GIACOMO BENEDETTI.

p

cresc.

p

cres.

G's M. A. 3d Y. 19.

Copyright, 1886, by Robert Goldbeck.

Description of non-textual image:
A scanned, slightly aged sheet-music page. Centered at the top is the title in large capitals. Below the title is the designation "FOR PIANO." and the composer name printed at the top right. The page contains five systems (staves) of piano notation, each system showing the usual grand-staff (treble and bass clefs connected by a brace). The music is notated with many measures of eighth- and sixteenth-note figurations, slurs, staccato dots, and dynamic markings (p, cresc., etc.). Small finger-number annotations appear beside many notes. There are occasional hairpins (crescendo markings), and chordal accompaniment in the left hand with arpeggiated and repeated patterns. The page number 12 appears at the top left. The paper shows light stains and edge wear from age; a dark vertical border is visible along the right edge where the page was bound.
Extracted text (verbatim as it appears on the page):
13
p
f
cres.
poco a poco
diminuendo
G's M.A. 3d Y. 195.

Other textual elements and markings visible (appearing repeatedly throughout the music):
fingerings and small numbers: 1 2 3 4 5 (also occasional 8)
various single-letter dynamic marks repeated: p, f

Detailed description of the non-textual image content:
A scanned, slightly faded page of piano sheet music (page number 13 at the top-right). The page contains seven systems of grand-staff notation (each system with treble and bass clefs joined by a brace at the left). The staves are filled with standard musical notation: beams, noteheads, rests, barlines, slurs and phrase marks, and many small finger-number annotations (1–5, and a few 8s) above and below notes. There are dynamic markings (p and f) and expressive marks (a printed "cres." in one place, "poco a poco" in another, and "diminuendo" near the bottom system). The page shows signs of age and wear: uneven inking, smudging, and a darkened binder margin at the left; a small printer’s/imprint line appears in the lower-left corner reading "G's M.A. 3d Y. 195."
14

NOTTURNO.

FROM MIDSUMMERNIGHT'S DREAM.

By MENDELSSOHN.

M.M
Andante: J =84.      8

ben sostenuto. (well sustained.)

cresc.    rit.

poco animato

ben marcato il canto

G's M A 3d. Y. 130.         copyright 1886 by Robt. Goldbeck.

Description of non-textual content:
The image is a scanned page of antique sheet music. It shows five grand-staff systems (treble and bass staves) filled with musical notation: clefs, key signature, time signature, notes, rests, slurs, ties, fingerings (small numerals above and below notes), dynamic markings (mf, p, etc.), and various performance directions placed near the staves. The left edge of the page has a wide dark vertical strip (the binding or a scanner shadow). The paper is aged and slightly speckled, with darker edges and some light smudges and foxing. The printed title and headings are in bold uppercase type, while performance directions and publication information are in smaller serif type.
Transcribed text (verbatim, as it appears on the page)

15

Ped.  (repeated many times under the staves throughout the page)

cresc.

G's M.A. 3d. Y. 131.

*  (small asterisks appear beside some Ped. markings)

Numerals used as fingering above/beside notes (printed and handwritten): 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  (numerals appear repeatedly across the staves as fingerings and occasional circled annotations)

Description of non-textual content

- The image is a single page of printed piano sheet music laid out as five grand-staff systems (treble and bass staves paired) filling the page. Each system contains musical notation: staff lines, clefs, key signatures, time signatures, many beamed and un-beamed notes, rests, slurs (curved phrase markings), and dynamic/articulation markings.

- Numerous small printed "Ped." markings with some corresponding release asterisks are placed under the bass staff across many measures indicating use of the sustain pedal. A few of these "Ped." signs have accompanying small star symbols marking pedal changes.

- There are many finger numbers (1–5 and higher numerals) printed or handwritten above and near notes indicating suggested fingering; some of these are circled by hand (visible circled numerals such as 8, 9, etc.).

- Handwritten pencil/ink editorial marks are visible in several places: circled numbers near the top of some systems, light slurs or phrase additions drawn above certain passages, and small editorial numerals written near groups of notes.

- A small printed instruction "cresc." (crescendo) appears under the lower staff in the lower systems.

- The page number "15" is printed at the top right corner.

- The lower-left corner of the page contains the small printed publisher/plate line text transcribed above as "G's M.A. 3d. Y. 131." (this is printed at the very bottom edge of the page).

Overall the page is a scanned/photocopied sheet of piano music with both printed notation and several handwritten/editing annotations (circled fingerings and small marks) in pencil or ink.
16                                                                                       8

Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.

poco agitato crescendo.

Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.

sempre animato e poco forte.

Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.    molto cresc.    f

Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.  Ped.

rit.

rit.

1 - 5    2 - 3 - 4    5

pp Lento.

*Ped.  *Ped.  *Ped.

G's M.A. 3d Y. 132.

(Handwritten/penciled circled 3 at right margin)

Description of non-textual images:
This is a single page of piano sheet music showing multiple systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs). The page contains many musical elements: notes, beams, rests, slurs, phrase markings, arpeggiation brackets, dynamics (f, pp), finger-number annotations (small numerals 1–5 beside many notes), and numerous printed pedal markings "Ped." under measures (some with asterisks marking pedal releases). There are editorial pencil markings and circled numbers (notably a circled "3" in pencil near the right margin). The left margin of the page is heavily darkened; the page shows age-related spotting and smudging around the edges.
THE ETUDE. 141

WORTH REPEATING.

(Under this Department will appear articles that have been in print, but are worthy of repetition. We will be pleased to receive contributions from our readers, from resources outside of the back numbers of THE ETUDE.)

COST OF STUDYING ABROAD.

Because of the continual interest in the question of going to Germany to study music, we republish the following:—

Blakesly Hall writes an interesting article to the New York Sun concerning the cost of living in Berlin. He says: "The average annual expenses of an American student here, if he lives according to the standard set by his fellows, are about $800. A very large proportion of the students of both sexes spend considerably less than $800. Students who wish to economize can hire rooms at from $5 to $9 a month, and bring their board in unison with their pocket-books. Pianists have more expenses than other musicians, because they generally require larger rooms for their instruments, besides having to pay $12 to $20 a month for the hire of a piano."

Mr. Hall advises American students to have a distinct understanding with their landlords with reference to the cost of fire and light, or the monthly bills will leap upward and an extraordinary pace. He says, further, that it is better to hire than purchase a piano, "if you have your own you are at the mercy of the landlord." He rightly conjectures that, rather than damage his piano by constantly moving, the owner will submit to all sorts of extortion and frequent increase in room rent.

He advises Americans who contemplate studying in Berlin to write and secure rooms in advance. The landlords look upon American students as legitimate objects of prey.

The best and cheapest of the institutions in Berlin is the Royal Academy. The pupils pay $40 a year each, but this may often be considerably diminished by the scholarships for competent students of small means. There is one scholarship of $300 a year.

Private lessons range from $1.25 to $4 a lesson. Mr. Blakesly Hall thinks that, in view of the extortionate practices of the landlords, the brusqueness, roughness and crudeness of the German professors—who are neither suave nor polished—and the absence of all congenial surroundings, "American" girls, particularly those of a sensitive nature, will not find their paths strewn with roses."

The necessary expenses of the piano student, independent of the expense of clothing, is summed up as follows:

Board and room, . . . . . . . . . . . . $250
Tuition, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Piano rent, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Concert, operas, etc., . . . . . . . . 30
Music and extras, . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Total, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 410

Berlin he considers the most musical city in the world; but there is, outside of music, not much to interest American girls. "They all complain continually of the dullness and solidity of their surroundings, the extreme heat of the Summer, and the lack of geniality and fine among the people." Most of these students are more familiar with the German language than with the Chautauqua.

Questions and Answers.

Ques.—1. What course of studies would you advise a pupil to take who can play Chopin's Etudes, Scherzo in B minor, and such pieces as "Norma" and "Eroica," by J. Leybach, Wold. Liszt's "Etudes" be too severe? Ans.—We have here a C. L. S. C., and as I am one of the "Sidlettes," and am desirous as a true lover of music, what pieces would you advise as an introduction to such composers as Schubert, Beethoven, etc. In other words I wish to introduce a better class of music than we have been accustomed to, and as you understand, it must be done in small doses? C. W. L.

Ans.—1. See April number of THE ETUDE, page 68, 3rd column, for a list of such pieces, as will be suited to your needs. As to studies, some of Chopin's need months of work to give them anything like an artistic finish. On the face of it, this question indicates that your pupil is not thorough enough, does not bring the studies up to a good finish. It is hard to make pupils realize that their most useful practice is on a piece of study after they "have it learned." Never can a smooth finish be given, on an easy and unhesitating style be acquired without this indispensable often and continued after-practice.

2. Nothing is better to lead people to enjoy the classics than to play the classics to them. I would suggest that, as the C. L. S. C. is an educational society, nothing could be more proper and useful than for you to give from three to five evenings in W. S. B. Mathews' "How to Understand Music," Vol. I. I have done this, and know, from much experience, of its great value; the programs there given are interesting, and yourself and pupils can study nothing of more value or interest than it will be to work up these musicales. But, as a help to you in giving classical programmes that will be pleasing to the average audience, try the following, in the order named: Schubert's Menetto in B minor, from Op. 78; Tema of Op. 142, No. 3 and No. 2, Mozart's Sonatas, Peter's Edition; Andante, with the variations I and IV of Sonata No. 12; the Adagio of Sonata II, and the Rondo of No. 17. Of Beethoven's Sonatas: Op. 2, No. 1, first sixteen measures of the Adagio; Op. 14, No. 2, the Andante and variations; Op. 26, Andante in A flat with variations; Op. 10, No. 2, Allegretto and the Presto; Op. 13, Adagio Cantabile; Op. 31, No. 8, the Menuetto in E flat; Op. 27, No. 2, Allegretto; and Op. 14, No. 1, Allegretto; Op. 2, No. 8, Scherzo; Op. 7, Allegro; Op. 31, No. 2, 33 measures of the Allegretto. Schubert, Op. 94, Nos. 2, 3 and 6, and some of the dances of Op. 9. Try a good arrangement of his "Hark the Lark." Also, these from Mozart: Allegro of Sonata No. 3 (Peter's Edition); Asesi Allegro of No. 6; Allegro con Spirito and the Andante quasi un Poco Adagio of No. 8; Allegro of No. 10 and Asasi of the Fantasia Sonata. Also, the F minor Andante and variations by Haydn.

If you desire some of Schumann, try Nocturne (Nachtstucke), Op. 24, No. 4; Polonaise in D, Op. 2, No. 11. These two can be had in our annotated editions, Nos. 986 and 988, and also his cradle song and Traumerei. Of Mendelssohn, try Rondo Capriccioso, and Nos. 4, 19, 16, 28 and 30, of Songs Without Words. Of Chopin, try Valses (Peter's Edition), Op. 70, No. 1 and No. 14; Polonaise Militaire, Op. 40, No. 1; Mazurkas, Op. 6, No. 1; Op. 7, No. 1; Op. 24, No. 3; Op. 33, No. 2: Op. 67, No. 1; Op. 67, No. 3; Op. 68, No. 2; Op. 68, No. 3. Of Chopin's Nocturnes, try Op. 32, No. 1, and Op. 17, No. 2. If a person likes music at all, any of the above pieces will please if they are well played. This list will be found to be of value to teachers, and should be saved for reference. C. W. L.

CONCERT PROGRAMMES.

Mr. Wm. H. Sherwood in his two Recitals at the Summer Music School, at Chautauqua Assembly, 1890, has played from the following composers: Chopin, 19 pieces; Schumann, 14 pieces; Liszt, 7 pieces; Beethoven, 9 pieces; Wagner, 4 pieces; Schubert, Wm. H. Sherwood, Rubinstein and Mendelssohn, 3 pieces each; Bach, Handel, Rheinberger and Tausig, 2 pieces each, and one each of the following: Wm. Mason, Edgar H. Sherwood, Carl Heymann, Mozart, Tschaikowsky, Henselt, Dupont, Haberberth-Guilmant, Domenico Scarlatti, Raff, C. M. von Weber, Constantino Sternberg, W. H. Dayas, Grieg, Bargiel, Moszkowski, Wieniawski, and Sgambati.

2

LETTERS TO TEACHERS.

BY W. S. B. MATHEWS.

Ques. 1. I have one little pupil whose hand will turn over on the little finger side, and I cannot break up the habit. I have drilled her in finger exercises faithfully, but when she is not thinking, over it goes again. Can you suggest a remedy?

Ans. 1. I cannot offer advice upon this point farther than to say that the two-finger exercise for elastic touch, if persisted in for a length of time, and supplemented with the same exercise in double-notes, i. e., in sixths, with the hand being held correctly, will strengthen the little finger to such an extent that the hand will assume a good position, habitually. The will and attention of the pupil, however, must co-operate. Nothing can be done without the effort on the pupil's part; but as a habit takes some time to form, the teacher will require patience. Moreover, it is quite possible to overdo the attention to purely mechanical points. After a proper amount of time on the manner of holding the hand, completing the touch, etc., the pupil must be allowed to play pieces of a poetic character, not being held to attend primarily to the technique, but thinking mainly and assiduously of the music. Otherwise the playing becomes reduced to a mechanical concept, and takes on that character of small "old-maidishness" so recognizable in what is called "conservatory" playing which is a result of "class-work."

2. A very small amount of practice upon five-finger exercises may be useful, and probably is. But only a very small amount. Playing much with the hands in a stationary position upon the key-board and in a "passage touch," as touch must be in finger exercises placed rapidly with a quiet hand, tends to establish the habit of playing all the time with a passage quality of touch, and not with melody touch. This is the fault of all the piano pupils formed forty years ago, when five-finger exercises constituted the staple of mechanical training.

AMERICAN COLLEGE OF MUSICIANS.

The Fifth Annual Examination of the above College took place at New York on June 24th and following days. The increased percentage of successful candidates, in spite of a gradual rise in the standard, proves that the thorough work required by the College is being better understood by students generally, and they know that, in order to pass, they must be well acquainted, both practically and theoretically, with the branches of which they are examined. It is pleasant to know that the music, a branch hitherto neglected by instrumentalists, is now being carefully urged.

The successful candidates this year are:—

For the Fellowship Degree, Richard M. Weldon, Dechard, Tenn. Special Theory, Harriet E. Judd, New York; Wm. G. McAllister, New York; and Fred-eric Kaiser, Philadelphia, organ.

For the Associate Degree, Harriet E. Judd, New York; H. B. Gillette, Boston; Geo. H. Loomis, Pawtucket, R. I.; Edwin Barnes, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mary E. Wade, Altoona, Pa.; Mary H. Hazlewood, Providence, R. I.; and Ed. V. McIntire, Newark, N. J., pianists.

The Annual Meeting was held on June 25th, and the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: President, W. S. B. Mathews, New York; 1st Vice-Presi-dent, W. F. Sherwood, Boston; 2nd Vice-President, J. H. Currier, Springfield, Mass.; Secretary and Treasurer, Robert Bowman, Providence, R. I.

The Board of Examiners for 1891 consists of Prof. F. H. C. Egan, Portland, Me.; Wm. Mason, N. Y.; A. R. Paine, Boston; S. R. Warren, S. B. Whiteley, Geo. F. Whiting, Organ; S. E. Jacoby, J. H. Beck, Gustav Harlpain, Vienna; Louise L. Bartlett, N. W. Jef-fer, Wm. G. Gilmore, W. E. Norwood, H. C. Woolsey, H. W. Dana, public school; Dudley Buck, W. W. Gilchrist, Thos. Tapper, Jr., musical theory and composition.

Steps have been taken by which examinations will be held each year, alternating in the East and West, New York and Chicago. This will give a larger and broader approval of music students generally.

The examinations for 1890 will shortly be published, and will be sent on application by the secretary, Robert Bowman, 50 Williams Street, Providence, R. I., who will also furnish copies of the prospectus and examination papers for former years, and to whom all questions for information concerning the College should be addressed.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS. (continued)

Ques. 3. I have one little pupil whose hand will turn over on the little finger side, and I cannot break up the habit. I have drilled her in finger exercises faithfully, but when she is not thinking, over it goes again. Can you suggest a remedy?

[This question is the same as Ques. 1 above and appears continued in the column.]

TESTIMONIALS.

Greencastle, Ind., Aug. 1, 1890.
Mr. T. Presser.

Dear Sir:—I am very glad to receive your "School of Four-Hand Playing." I am strongly in favor of this Department, and shall place the work before my Assistants. JAMES HAMILTON HOWE.

White Hall, Ill., July 30, 1890.
Thos. Presser.

Dear Sir:—Having carefully examined Mathews' Twenty Lessons to a Beginner, I want to say I am very much pleased with the new ideas set forth, and realize better and more satisfactory results with the pupils I have been teaching in the manner suggested. L. EDMONDSON CARSON.

A composition in which the character changes abruptly, as in a potpourri, has no artistic value. —Weitzmann.

CONCERT PROGRAMMES. (continued)

[The rest of the right-hand column contains small notices and lists already transcribed above under Concert Programmes and American College of Musicians and Testimonials.]

Description of non-textual elements:

- The page is a facsimile of a printed newspaper or magazine page (The Etude), showing three dense columns of small serif text, with headings and subheadings in larger, bold or small-caps type. There are rule lines separating some sections. The page number "141" appears at the top right. The masthead "THE ETUDE." is centered at top in large capital letters. The scan shows paper aging: faint foxing, small spots, slight vertical crease near left margin, and darker outer borders where the page edge was scanned. There are no photographs or pictorial illustrations on the page—only typographic ornamentation and section rules.
142

THE ETUDE.

PUBLISHER'S NOTES.

We would again call attention to "The Sonatina
Album." It is a valuable set of fine pieces for forming
and improving taste. Also, for lessons in reading.
Nearly all of the pieces in this book require melodic
work by the left hand.

Where the pupil has a member of the family who can
play with him or her, or has some child friend who plays,
"The School of Four-Hand Playing", will be of par-
ticular value. But where the pupil is the only musical
one in the house the teacher can take the other part of
the piece. These pieces are very easy, and all are pleas-
ing. The book is fast becoming popular with the better
class of teachers. Price one dollar.

The highest authorities agree that musical notation is
too imperfect to allow the composer to put down his
thoughts exactly as he felt them; therefore, the per-
former must expound, or so play as to explain or inter-
pret the compositions, as well as merely to perform them.
Hence, the office of annotated, analyzed and explana-
tory editions is a necessity, as a help toward their lucid,
expressive and correct presentation.

The publisher of THE ETUDE will largely extend his
list of such pieces, employing the best talent available,
and so make them of exceptional value.

Perhaps it is not known by our readers that we have
one of the largest and most complete stocks of music in
the country. We fill orders for any music or music
book published. Besides a large catalogue of our own
publications, we keep an immense stock of music from
Europe, as well as from the various publishers of this
country. Write us for terms, and we can make it for
your interest to buy of us.

The "special offers" on some of our forthcoming
publications will be soon withdrawn; therefore, if you
intend to avail yourself of these low prices, send in your
order early.

Extraordinary Offer. $10.00 worth of VALUABLE
NEW WORKS FOR $3.00. — The publisher, knowing the im-
portance of introducing a new work among active music
teachers, offers the following new works at about the
cost of printing, paper and binding: "Normal Course
of Piano Technic" ($2.00), by W. B. Waite. "Twenty
Lessons to a Beginner" ($1.50), by W. S. B. Mathews.
"Thirty Selected Studies from Stephen Heller" ($1.50).
"Studies in Melody Playing" ($1.25), by H. C. Mac-
dougall. "Chants with Music Students" ($1.50), by
Thomas Tapper. "First Lessons in Phrasing" ($1.50),
by W. S. B. Mathews. "Supplement to Grade I. of
School of Four-Hand Playing" (75 cts.), by William
Drobegge.

The publisher retains the privilege of withdrawing this
offer at any time.

— Day after day the publishing houses are putting forth
to the public books and pamphlets that will aid in
teaching; we read them all, we read the best magazines
published in the interests of our special work; we are
constantly looking for a magical text-book that will make
the way easy for the teacher. And after all this we sit
down and weep over children, declaring that the poor re-
sults of our teaching must come from poor text-books
and poor pupils, dodging thereby the very reason
that is the real cause. Poor teachers are the root of all
evil. We lament that there are music students who
learn nothing but trash. They learn trash because they
know some teacher or other who will instruct them in
trash for a certain consideration in the shape of green-
backs. Bad teaching is due only to bad teachers.
THOMAS TAPPER.

LATEST PUBLICATIONS.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

ORDER BY NUMBER ONLY.

989. Bryant, Gilmore W., Fingerflight,
Mazurka for the Pianoforte. Grade
IV. 75
A beautiful, melodious and a graceful mazurka for
Pianoforte. A good piece for teaching the technic of
accents. 989 is the exact number of this popular
piece.

990. Morris, M. S. Writing Exercises for
Students on Music. 30
The best exercise book on writing for beginners
— those who have had little or no previous instruc-
tion. All beginners should use this.

991. Schmidt, J. C. La Favorite Shoot-
tische de Militaire. Grade III. 30 85
Popular in style, well calculated to please. Good for
a school march; will do for use in a class of Gymnastics.

992. Presser, Theodore. A School of
Four-Hand Playing. Book I. 1 00
Within the compass of Five Notes. A collection of
the easiest pieces. For the child in the school-room
to develop taste. Composed by several American
and European teachers; and carefully edited and
arranged for the convenience of teachers in the
country. We recommend this book highly to all
teachers who have pupils unable to read well and
who are learning. Price one dollar.

993. [1. Thomas, G. A., Op. 18. No. ]
[2. Contemblant. J. Ch. Cradle Song.]
"2. Wohlfahrt. H., Cradle Song."
"Concerning" is a pretty little melody and is easily
learned by all pupils. A good study for expression,
as it has forcible points. The Cradle Song is a
delightful, simple song; the title is suggestive and
its meaning will be readily caught by young pupils.
Both hands play alone.

994. 3. Enckhausen, H., Op. 58, No. 1
3. "At Evening."
4. Vogel, Moritz, Reaper's Song."
"A. Evening" is a gentle little melody, very simple
and easy. A good piece for training pupils to play
together, being written in two parts; an excellent
piece to accompany the voice. Both hands play
alone. "Reapers' Song" is a bright little piece, very
sprightly, and will make a good study for singing.

995. 5. Wohlfahrt, H., Op. 87. No. 33.
"Polka."
6. Enckhausen, H. "Song of the
Little Maiden."
These pieces are brilliant and fanciful; for this reason
they are well adapted to the demands of the juvenile
pupil. Both hands play.

996. 7. Enckhausen, H., Op. 58. No. 7
7. "March."
8. Diabelli, A., Op. 149. No. 5.
"Happy Day."
Both of these pieces are very easy, and the pupil is
played with a song-like style. "March" is in good
form. "Happy Day" is expressive, and may be used
for home-exercise as well as for class-playing.

997. 9. Beeren, H., Op. 62. No. 10.
Melody."
10. Beeren, H., Op. 62. No. 21.
"Mazurka."
Both are excellent for expression, being simple little
pieces. The pupil should be taught to play in the
fingering and phrasing with emphasis on the melody,
and not on the accompaniment. The Mazurka is a
good study in rhythmical accent.

998. 11. Wohlfahrt, H. "Laughing
Waters."
12. Kleinmichel, R., Op. 43. No. 1.
"Gallopade."
These two pieces are excellent for practice in rapid
movement. "Laughing Waters" is very animated
and bright, giving the young player a good opportunity
for sparkling execution. "Gallopade" is very short,
but yet a good study for clean technic; both hands are
active.

999. 13. Tourte, Berthold. Little Johnnie.
A beautiful duet for the pupils to play together.
Both hands play. An excellent little piece for a pupil's
home study exercises.

1000. 14. Diabelli, A., Op. 149. No. 7.
Jubilate March.
In a march style, well sustained in both hands. Very
greatly liked by pupils of all ages. A good study in
touch and accent.

1001. 15. Enke, H., Op. 6. No. 2. Hon-
grosie.
This piece is a beautiful expression of melody, and is
well adapted for quality and tone. A very useful piece
in a cultured program. Both hands play.

1002. 16. Etzenbacher, A., Et Play.....
This piece is full of play and life. Very animated.
A good study for dynamic contrast and rapid articulat-
ion. Both hands active.

1003. 17. Kulak, Theo. Gypsy Life. Grade
II.
A little, allegro scherzando. Each hand independ-
ently brilliant. Good study for fingering and accent.
20

1004. 18. ... (text not clear) ... Op. 8.
(Probably incomplete listing)
20

BROAD STREET
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
ESTABLISHED 1865.

REMOVED TO
1331 South Broad Street, Phila.

ENLARGED AND IMPROVED
IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.

The only Conservatory in the Country employing
Male Teachers exclusively.

The only Conservatory in the State having a com
plete Orchestral and Band Department.

Instruction in all Branches of Music by a Faculty of
26 Professors.

FREE ADVANTAGES.
FREE SCHOLARSHIPS.

Special Training Course for Teachers.

Reasonable Board in neighborhood. For Cata-
logues, address.

GILBERT R. COMBS, Director,
1331 S. Broad St., Phila.

Mention THE ETUDE.

Incorporated 1878.
NEW YORK COLLEGE OF MUSIC,
183 East 70th St., New York City.
ALEXANDER LAMBERT, Director.

All Branches of Music taught, from the beginning to the highest
artistic attainment. Voice, Violin, Pianoforte, Organ, Harmony,
Composition, Counterpoint, Theory, History, Ensemble and
Chorus, Orchestral Instruments. Thorough and practical
instruction. Send for catalogue. Terms reasonable.

THE S. H. REMSENPRINTING COMPANY
MUSIC TYPES AND PRINTERS
918 Race St., Philadelphia, Pa.

NEW LESSONS IN HARMONY.
BY JOHN C. FILLMORE.
"We know no work in which a musical student
can be more thoroughly taught than in the study of
harmony from Mr. Fillmore's new book." — The
Musical Times, London.
This work is adapted to the system used in the
leading musical institutions of the country. It is of
special value to teachers and students as a clear and
concise manual.
For sale by all music dealers. Price $1.00.

" A careful perusal of this will enable students to see
clearly the drift of modern musical speculation in "The
Nation."
— Dr. Riemann, "The greatest living musical theorist."
— The Nation.

WANTED. — A position as Teacher of Piano and
Classical Vocal Singing. Recent Graduate of leading
Conservatory. (Prefer Sal-F degree.) Several years
experience in teaching. References if required. Ad-
dress (care) THE ETUDE Office, 1704 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

WANTED. — A Music Clerk to take charge of the
wholesale department of a large house. None but
those of good general knowledge need apply. Address,
giving experience and references, (care) C. & S. Co.,
Care of ETUDE Office, 1704 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

(Bottom left corner: small ad box with "LATEST PUBLICATIONS." already transcribed above.)

(Non-textual images and decorations)
- There is a thin decorative rule line across the top under the masthead "THE ETUDE."
- The page is divided into three columns by faint vertical rules. The rightmost column contains a large advertisement block for the Broad Street Conservatory of Music with bold type and centered layout. Beneath that is an advertisement for the New York College of Music and a small decorative printer's emblem for "THE S. H. REMSEN PRINTING COMPANY" comprised of ornamental type and a small vignette-like frame.
- There are various horizontal rule lines separating sections and advertisements.
- The paper has age-related speckling and slight darkening at the margins; the top left and right corners show darker shading. The typography is a mix of serif fonts with some bold and large display types for headings and advertisement names.
THE ETUDE. 143

PALMER'S
PIANO-PRIMER.
15th EDITION.

Notes and Remarks by such Musicians as Dr. Wm. Mason, Mr. Wm. H. Sherwood, Mr. Albert R. Parsons, etc.

It is CONCISE; it is EXHAUSTIVE; it is endorsed by most of the great American Pianists and teachers. Letters of commendation of it have been received from the most prominent musicians in more than twenty different States. It is adopted as a STANDARD work in most of the Colleges in America. Its sales have been phenomenal. Its price is, very reasonable, viz.: In Cloth, embossed, $1.00; in Board covers, 75 cents, and in paper covers, 50 cents. Address

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADA., PA.

FIFTY EXAMINATION QUESTIONS
FOR PIANOFORTE STUDENTS,
BY ALBERT W. BORST.
Price 5 Cents. 50 Cents Per Dozen.

THEO. PRESSER, Publisher, Philad'a, Pa.

CHASE BROS. PIANOS.

[Illustration of an upright piano: a black-and-white engraved image of an ornate upright piano showing an elaborately carved music desk, detailed panels above the keyboard, visible keyboard and legs with a decorative pedal box.]

The Standard for Excellence and Durability.
MANUFACTURED IN ALL STYLES OF
GRANDS and UPRIGHTS,
BY
CHASE BROS. PIANO CO.,
Factories: Grand Rapids and Muskegon, Michigan.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.

A System of Piano Technic.
JAMES HAMILTON HOWE.

CLOTH, $1.50.

Includes a complete set of Scales, Arpeggios, Double Thirds, Double Sixths, etc., in various motions, together with fingered exercises for special development, and School of Embellishments. It follows nicely the popular Pianoforte Instructor, of late issue (by the same author), and is intended for pupils of ordinary attainment, and for the progressive classes of the Conservatories. It is fully illustrated by means of diagrams, is carefully edited and corrected, and is prepared for publication, having been adopted by the advanced classes of some of the best musical institutions of the country. The "Technic" in the future will be bound in limp cloth, no separate cover, and thus ensure the book against loss. A new and original Arpeggio Exercise will be introduced in the next edition.

THEO. PRESSER,
No. 1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

A Supplement to Every Instruction Book:
THE STUDY
OF THE PIANO.
BY
H. PARENT.
Translated by M. A. Bierstadt.
PRICE $1.00.

THIS work is designed to accompany the instruction book—with every beginner, and will serve as a supplement to any method.

The information is imparted in the form of questions and answers, which will make the work useful as a primer, but it is vastly more complete and comprehensive than any primer published.

The following are a few of the subjects, out of the 175 pages, which we give at random:

General Advice on the Method of Practice.
Necessity of Counting.
Some Special Difficulties.
Musical Memory.
On Reading Music.
The Pedal.
Overcoming of Bad Habits.

The book will be bound in cloth, and will be a pleasing contrast to the ordinary pasteboard cover primers that are placed in the hands of a beginner.

Address the Publisher,
THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

PIANO PROTECTOR
AND
FOOT-REST COMBINATION.

This Invention provides a Protection for the Piano, also, an

EXTENSION FOOT-REST,
Connected with the Pedals—Especially designed to enable Persons of Small Stature to Rest their Feet, and also to Work the Pedals of the Piano.

PRICE LIST.
No. 1. FOOT-REST, $1.50
No. 2. " " (nickel plated), 2.50
No. 3. FOOT-REST AND EXT., (nickel plated), 4.00
No. 4. " " (polished brass), 8.00

Address
THEO. PRESSER, PHILA., PA.

The Philadelphia Musical Journal.
ONLY $1.00 A YEAR.

AMERICA'S LEADING MUSICAL PUBLICATION.
Educational Department. Edited by Hugh A. Clarke, Mus. Doc., University of Pennsylvania.

The Journal contains music and musical notes for every issue, and is of especial value to teachers and amateurs.

A Folio of Music Free to Every Subscriber.
SPECIAL TERMS AND DISCOUNTS TO MUSIC TEACHERS.

Yearly Subscription, $1.00. Sample Copy, 10 cts.

GOULD & WOOLLEY, Publishers,
1416 and 1418 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.

THE
NORMAL * COURSE
OF
PIANO TECHNIC.
DESIGNED FOR
SCHOOLS, TEACHERS and STUDENTS,
By WM. B. WAIT,
Author of "Harmonic Notation," (Theo. Presser,
Phila.), "System of Tangible Music for Use of the
Blind," "Measure, Rhythm, and Form."

The NORMAL COURSE is based upon the fundamental idea, that for the purpose of the development, discipline and culture of the mind, and for teaching the learner how to think and to do, Technical studies in Music are as useful as any other branch.

FEATURES OF THE BOOK.

Clear, concise statements of facts and principles.
It deals only with essentials.
It arranges the materials in grades, by Divisions, Courses and Steps.
It exhibits a distinct mode and order of development.
The course is as clearly laid out as in any other branch of study.
Practice based upon understanding of means as applied to ends.
It permits the attention to be given to the hands in practice, and not to the pages.
In schools, it will secure uniformity in the instruction given.
It furnishes the basis for oral recitations and examinations, in other musical branches.
It is logical, systematic, thorough.
It is a book for use by schools, teachers and students.

PRICE $2.00, BOUND.

We will make a deduction, as usual, to those ordering the work in advance of publication. We will send the work, post-paid, for only 60 cents to those sending cash with order. The work will not be ready for several months.

Address the Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut St., Phila., Pa.

A PIANOFORTE INSTRUCTOR.
BY JAMES HAMILTON HOWE.
Op. 15.

This Instructor includes for its theoretical portion: Notation; Rhythm; Chromatic Scales; Accents; Marks of Touch, Power and Tempo; Syncopations; Abbreviations; Marks of Power and Tempo, and Theory of Technique. A full page is devoted to Diagrams for Position and Hand-Delivery.

The Practical part contains a thorough set of Technical Exercises, designed progressively; Scale Studies for Major and Minor, in all keys, suggested and arranged with illustrative Music and with Progressive Compositions.

Numerous and varied Studies are introduced for Teachers and Pupils, illustrating the several points of Technique in a clear and attractive manner.

The last four pages are devoted to the Major Scales in all keys, with Grand Arpeggios; the Harmonic, Melodic and Mixed Minor Scales in all keys, and an original Grand Arpeggio and Octave Exercise, which is both interesting and instructive.

The Instructor has been edited and arranged by the author in such a manner as to make the book especially desirable for use in Conservatories, Colleges, Schools, and for private instruction. Price, Cloth, $1.50.

Address THEO. PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

[At bottom of right column, small list of names and endorsements, partially visible:]
This work is endorsed by the following: T. H. Howard, Wm. H. Sherwood, H. C. Z. Anson, H. L. Lang, H. H. A. Beach, J. S. Dwight, etc. (text in original contains many more names and is partly obscured in scan).
144

THE ETUDE.

A NEW BOOK FOR BEGINNERS.

THE ART OF PIANOFORTE PLAYING.
By Hugh A. Clarke, Mus. Doc. Price $1.50, post-
paid.

This is a new work embodying the results of thirty
years' experience of a practical teacher, who has held
the responsible position of Professor of Music in the
Pennsylvania University for the last fifteen years.

The design of the work is to furnish a thoroughly
artistic school for beginners, embodying all the latest
results of the best criticism. The exercises have been
constructed with great care, and are graded in such a
way that the difficulties that beset beginners are almost
insensibly overcome. Not a page has been admitted for
the purpose of making a book; no other work has been
borrowed from; but every piece in the work is the
result of careful study of the requirements of a complete
elementary school for the pianoforte.

Practical and Pleasing.

It is of the utmost importance that a proper beginning
be made. There are two features in this book that make
it one of the best works for beginners ever issued,
namely—

It Interests the Pupil, it Cultivates the Taste.

On these two points every teacher must look
for success, and it is well to have a text-book at the
beginning that lays particular stress upon important
principles.

There are numerous duets for teacher and pupil, all
having a specific object in view. There are a goodly
number of pleasing pieces of a didactic nature, and exer-
cises for strict and mechanical fingering, such as scales,
arpeggios, five-finger exercises, etc.

Address publisher, THEO. PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

PALMER'S
New Pronouncing Pocket Dictionary
of Musical Terms.
2600 TERMS DEFINED.

A new and greatly enlarged edition of the Pocket
Dictionary has recently been issued, which contains up-
wards of 2600 definitions, covering about all that is
required by musical students and teachers. It should
be in the possession of every person who studies music.
PRICE 25 CENTS.
Address THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut St., Philad'a., Pa.

JUST ISSUED.
FOUNDATION EXERCISES
IN PIANOFORTE PLAYING.
By A. K. VIRGIL.

To be used on the PRACTICE CLAVIER or PIANO.

The object of this work is—first, to establish the doctrine that Piano-
forte Technique is or should be an Elementary Study; and, second,
to supply teachers and pupils with exercises and facilities by which
this difficult branch can be acquired and practiced during the pupil's
beginning on the instrument. These exercises are so arranged that the
beginner may be easily led into practicing them, and thus be exercised
and taught. The work is not filled with the ordinary mechanical ex-
ercises, but with real musical studies having practical utility.

The work contains two parts, with thirty picture illus-
trations, the emphasis being laid not only upon positions,
but correct movements and economy of motion.

BOOKS I AND II, EACH $1.50.

EDWARD SCHUBERTH & CO., Publishers,
233 Union Square, New York.

SUITABLE FOR CHORAL SOCIETIES.

"Mrs. SPEAKER,"
AN OPERETTA.
By ALBERT W. BORST.

London—Novello, Ewer & Co., or from the composer, 3002 Hamilton
Street, Philadelphia. Special terms for quantities.

Philadelphia Musical Academy,
1617 SPRUCE STREET,
and 5073 Main Street, Germantown,
PHILADELPHIA.

22d SEASON.

Private and Class Lessons in all Branches of Music.

INSTRUCTORS:
Piano.—Rich. Zeckwer, R. Hennig, Marcus Lesson, Leland Howe,
Hermann Mohr, Gustav Hille, Martinus Van Gelder, F. Cresson,
Misses S. Sontag, M. Rothlauf, A. Smith, A. Sutor, L. Reher,
B. Davin, L. Williams, Mrs. W. O. J. Tores.
Organ.—David D. Wood, Leland Howe, F. Cresson.
Violin.—Gustav Hille, Martinus Van Gelder, Rch. Schmitt.
Violoncello.—Rudolph Hennig.
Vocal.—Pasquale Rondinella, Mrs. Boice-Hunsicker,
Miss L. Law.
Theory.—R. Zeckwer, F. E. Cresson.
Acoustics.—R. Zeckwer.
Orchestra Instruments.—H. L. Albrecht, Ed. Koch,
G. Mueller, C. Plagemann, R. Hoppe.

FREE ADVANTAGES.
Harmony, Symphony, Instrumental and Vocal Ensembles, Orchestra
Classes, Lectures on Acoustics and other Musical Topics.
Concerts by Teachers and Pupils in our own Hall.
Piano and Organ Recitals.

TUITION, $7.50 to $30.
For illustrated circulars apply to
RICH. ZECKWER, DIRECTOR.

A GRADED COURSE OF STUDY
FOR
CABINET ORGAN
By M. S. MORRIS.
PRICE—10 Cts.
Containing the best lists of pieces and studies, vol-
umes of voluntaries, arranged in systematic order for
reference.
Address Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, - - Philadelphia, Pa.

The Teachers' Help and Students' Guide.
FOR MUSIC TEACHERS AND STUDENTS.
E. M. SEFTON.
PRICE—$1.00.

This book will prove of great help to the young teacher—the young
pupil—also the musical parent, and perhaps the general public. It
is full of practical instruction; contains subjects for lectures and
illustrations for same; contains forms of advertisement; illustrates
methods of teaching different branches, and tells how to manage
pupils and secure a business. Teachers will find it a most useful
work. It is handsomely bound and printed from clear type, and
is well adapted to the wants of the profession.

Address THEO. PRESSER, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

SECOND VOLUME.
Studies in Phrasing
By W. S. B. MATHEWS.
Price $1.50 Net

A work that every Student of the Piano should study

CONTENTS:
Introduction.—Principles of Interpretation.
Method of Study.

ILLUSTRATIONS:
1. Mendelssohn, First Song without Words.
2. Bach, Nocturne in E flat.
3. Chopin, Nocturne in B Flat.
4. Mendelssohn, Hunting Song.
5. Schumann, Gratitude.
6. Schumann, Nachtstucke in F, Op. 23, No. 4.
7. Schumann, Anmut, Op. 4, No. 2.
8. Schumann, Gruss, Op. 79, No. 2.
9. Schumann, Cavatine, Op. 2.
10. Beethoven, Rondo in D, Op. 49, No. 2.
11. Mozart, Rondo in D, K. 485.
12. Rubinstein, Melody in F.
13. Mendelssohn, Song without Words, Op. 62.
14. Schumann, Humor, Op. 4.
15. Schumann, Trunkenheit, Op. 64.
16. Bach, Chromatic Fantasy in D, part of Oeuvre.
17. Schumann, Intermezzo, Op. 4.
18. Schumann, Phantasiestucke, Op. 12.
19. Schumann, Pioneers of Franz, Op. 79.
20. Schubert, Moment Musical, Op. 94, No. 2.

Address Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut St., Phila.

THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM,
BY
J. H. HALL AND J. E. RUEBUSH,
ASSISTED BY
ALDINE S. KIEFFER.

A fine collection of Church Tunes, Anthems, Choruses,
and Glees. Just from the press.

Contains 116 Church Tunes, 500 Pages Class
Songs, 70 Sunday-School Songs,
248 Part Songs, Anthems, etc.
Just the Book Teachers have wished for. 192 pp.

75 Cents per Copy; $7.50 per Dozen by Mail.

The great question before vocal music teachers is: How can we im-
prove the singing of our classes? This book contains no new
system, for that is impossible. It simply contains the best tunes of
standard writers, some new pieces and many familiar melodies,
suitable for congregational use, as well as for choirs and classes.
Specially adapted to Male Quartets, School and Class Singing,
and for general use.

RUEBUSH, KIEFFER & CO.,
DAYTON, VA.

Address Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut St., Phila.

The Organists' Journal.

This work will be sold by subscription, and will be complete in 12
monthly parts, each furnished with music printed on large plates.
Each part will contain from 16 to 32 pp. of matter in addition to
the music, besides articles by the best writers, giving instruction on
registration, style, fingerings, and selections for Service, etc.
8vo, extra cloth, $3.00 per year.

The first number will be issued Jan. 1st, 1888, and will contain several
beautiful plates of music arranged expressly for the Journal. Subscript-
ions may be sent to the publisher, who will give full information in
regard to terms and contributors. Address

THEO. PRESSER, WM. E. ASHMALL & CO.,
1704 Chestnut Street, 231 East 10th Street,
PHILADELPHIA, PA. NEW YORK, N.Y.

Description of non-textual elements:
- The page is a three-column newspaper/advertising page with a large decorative masthead at the top center reading "THE ETUDE." in an ornate serif type. The page number "144" appears at the top left.
- Several ornamental rules and lines divide sections and advertisements. There are no photographs; the page uses typographic ornamentation and varied typefaces and sizes for headings and advertisements.
THE ETUDE. 145

Professional Cards.

Mr. T. J. DAVIES, Mus. Bac.,
Gives lessons personally, or by correspondence, in Harmony,
Counterpoint, Canon and Fugue, Musical Form and
Orchestration. Students prepared for musical examinations.
Most thorough and systematic course. Compositions revised and
corrected. Terms moderate.
Address 18 LIBRARY BUILDING,
Scranton, Pa.

Harmony Lessons by Correspondence
ALSO
Lessons by Mail in Counterpoint and Orchestration.
For terms and particulars, address
G. T. BULLING,
174 RACE STREET, CINCINNATI, O.

MADAME ANNA STEINIGER,
CONCERT PIANISTE AND TEACHER,
BOSTON, MASS.
Beethoven Concerts and Concert programmes a specialty.
Madame Steiniger will make a tour, West and South, in January,
February and March, 1890, introducing here her Beethoven Con-
certo. Special terms made for large parties. Fine students taken
to Europe for the study of composition. Lessons by mail and by
correspondence.
Address FRAU ANNA STEINIGER, Boston, Mass.

W. S. B. MATHEWS,
TEACHER OF PIANOFORTE.
Lecturer and Writer upon Musical Topics.
No. 236 STATE ST., CHICAGO, ILL.
Room 18.

Mr E. M. BOWMAN,
(Editor of "Weltmann Musical Theory.")
STEINWAY HALL, NEW YORK.
Pianoforte and Organ instruction by the methods on which
modern artistic performance is based.
Musical Theory lessons, orally or by correspondence, by the
Weitzmann Method, which, by lucid explanations and interesting
course of study, commends itself to the attention of all who desire
to become thorough musicians.

Milwaukee School of Music,
422 BROADWAY, MILWAUKEE, WIS.
HARMONY LESSONS BY CORRESPONDENCE,
GIVEN BY
J. C. FILLMORE, Director.

MRS. W. H. SHERWOOD,
Concerts, Piano Recitals and Piano Instruction,
SUMMER PIANO LESSONS GIVEN.
Address at her residence,
288 Newbury Street,
BOSTON, MASS.

EDWARD BAXTER PERRY,
CONCERT PIANIST AND LECTURER.
Lecture Recitals at Colleges and Conservatories a Specialty.
Address, 178 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.
Mr. Perry has been engaged at the Boston Conservatory from Sept.
15th to the holidays. Special rates to parties on his direct
application to the above address.

HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Doc.,
223 South 38th Street,
PHILADELPHIA.

LESSONS BY MAIL (Harmony, Counterpoint
and Composition).
RICHARD GOERDELER,
Director of Music at Pennington Seminary,
PENNINGTON, NEW JERSEY,
Writes new, brilliant and original Piano Music for two and four
hands. New pieces sent promptly. Terms reasonable. Seud for
circulars and specimens. Office address, ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL, RICHMOND, VA.

MRS. MARY GREGORY MURRAY
(PUPIL OF WILLIAM MASON)
Instructor in the
"MASSON METHOD OF TOUCH AND TECHNIQUE"
Will make engagements for Concerts or Piano Lectures with
Illustrative Recitals, and will give Lessons by Mail. Terms
moderate. Address, Care of THE ETUDE, CHICAGO.

C. P. HOFFMANN,
DIRECTOR CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
OXFORD COLLEGE, OXFORD, OHIO.
Gives Lessons by Correspondence in Harmony, Counterpoint and
Composition. Address, Oxford, Ohio.

Professional Cards.

ORGAN OPENINGS, &c.,
MR. ALBERT W. BORST,
Teacher of the
ORGAN AND PIANOFORTE
3602 HAMILTON STREET,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Schools of Music.

GERMANY, BERLIN.
20 POTSDAMER STRASSE.
Kindworth Conservatory of Music,
Branches Taught:—Piano, Violin, Violoncello, Singing
and Theory of Music; Also Literature Classes in
German, French, Italian and English Languages.
Professors:—Messrs. K. Kindworth, Dr. Langhans,
Ruloff, Dr. Wedel, Dr. Reinmann, Th. Hey and
other renowned masters.
Prospectus to be obtained gratis through the Director,
KARL KINDWORTH,
Berlin, 20 Potsdamer Strasse.

With a Large Faculty of Superior Instructors, and
a splendid building for its exclusive use, the Oberlin
Conservatory offers unusual advantages for the Study of
Music. 484 students last year. Total expense for one
year's study (38 weeks) need not exceed $300.00.
Terms begin Sept. 17, Jan. 6, and April 7.
If you are intending to study Music in any of its
branches, send for catalogue to
F. B. RICE, Director,
OBERLIN, OHIO.

SCHOOL OF MUSIC,
DE PAUW UNIVERSITY, GREENCASTLE, IND.
Pupils prepared in all Departments of Music.
Piano, Organ, Violin, Voice, Theory, Composition.
FIVE COURSES OF STUDY.
Rooms, Board, Practice and Sheet Music at reasonable rates.
For circulars address,
A. M. MERRILL, Director,
Greencastle, Indiana.

THE MUSICIAN.
The object of this work is to help
to the better understanding and
enjoyment of Beautiful Music.
The work contains analyses of many of the best
compositions by classical writers. Starting with the
very earliest pieces for beginners, it leads on, in pro-
gressive order, through six grades, to the most diffi-
cult works written for the Piano-Forte.
It presupposes no knowledge of harmony, but,
starting with the simplest forms of composition, ex-
plains the most essential points, just as occasion pre-
sents itself in the different works under consideration,
using such concise and lucid language as will be under-
stood by mentally-less developed scholars. The work has
met with the unqualified endorsement of all those who
have examined it.

Schools of Music.
A MUSIC SCHOOL.

DANA'S MUSICAL INSTITUTE, WARREN, OHIO.
An institution devoted exclusively to the study of
Music. Gives instructions in all departments of Music,
with a thorough and Systematic Course of
Study, and a Faculty of the highest excellence and
efficiency. Founded in 1869. Send for Catalogue.
A STANDARD TEXT-BOOK,
DANA'S PRACTICAL HARMONY,
PRICE $2.00.

Claverack College
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC AND ART,
Claverack, Columbia County, N. Y.
CHAS. W. LANDON, — Musical Director.
Courses in Piano and Voice Culture, Organ, Violin, Cornet, Har-
mony and Counterpoint.
Normal Course for Music Teachers. Weekly Lectures and Musicales.

NEW DEPARTURE.
A Special and Original Course for Learning the Art of Teach-
ing Music.
Recitals by distinguished artists during the year.
Individual lessons only. Daily use of the Technicon and Techni-
cian. New Buildings and apparatus.
Special Classes in Chorus Drill, Vocal Sight Reading, and
Pupils' Orchestra.
A select class for advanced students for the study of Opera-
toria, Oratorios, Grand Operas, etc.
Pupils prepared for the Conservatory of Music in the United
States, and all European Conservatories. Scholarships and
special reductions granted to deserving persons.
Diplomas and Degrees conferred.
Thirty-Seventh Year Opens September 15th.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
A. H. FLAKE, A. M., President.

AMERICAN CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
Chickering Hall Building, Chicago.
All branches of Music, School of Lyric and Dramatic
Art; Normal Department for the training of
Teachers; Languages, Courses of Instrumental
and Vocal Instruction thorough and progressive.
SUMMER SESSION, JULY 7th to AUGUST 5th.
FALL TERM BEGINS SEPTEMBER 8th.
Catalogue mailed free on application.
J. J. HATSTAEDT, Director.

Dana's Musical Institute ad is right column top. Beneath A MUSIC SCHOOL is a large black rectangle (an image or block).

[Description of non-textual images]
There are two illustrations on the page. One is a large dark rectangular photographic or printed panel in the top right column beneath the heading "A MUSIC SCHOOL." It is a nearly solid black rectangle with no visible internal detail in this reproduction, occupying much of the column width and extending vertically for several lines of text height.

The second illustration is a wood-engraving style vignette located in the center column beneath the "Kindworth Conservatory of Music" advertisement and above the Oberlin Conservatory text. It is captioned "WARNER HALL, OBERLIN CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC." The engraving shows a stately multi-story building set in a landscaped scene with several large trees in the foreground. Small groups of figures (men, women and children) are depicted walking or standing on paths in front of the building; there is also what appears to be a horse-drawn vehicle or carriage at the right side near the structure. The building features a broad, columned porch or entrance and numerous windows; surrounding grounds include lawns and shrubbery. The style is typical of late 19th-century architectural engravings used in periodicals.
146      THE ETUDE.

Portraits of Famous Composers

JUST PUBLISHED IN PHOTO-GRAVURE.

BEETHOVEN, MOZART, CHOPIN and WAGNER.

Size 1—12x16 in. (life size), on 22x28 paper, @.....................$1.00
Size 2—8½x12½ in. (cabinet size), @........................................35
(Printed on Japanese paper, mounted on beveled card board.)

FRAMED.

Size 1—Framed, 20x24, in 2-inch oak, with 3½-inch silver moulding, @......$3.00
Size 2—Framed, 12¼x14, in 1¼-inch oak, @........................................1.75

BOXING CHARGED EXTRA.

The following are in preparation and will be issued in the order
named:—BACH, HANDEL, HAYDN, LISZT, MENDELSSOHN, MERTZ,
SARAJEWSKI, SCHARWOSKI, WIEGAND and others.
Subscriptions should be placed now.

JELLINEK & JACOBSON, Publishers,
18 East 17th Street, New York.
For Sale by
THEO. PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut St., Philada., Pa.

FOR BEGINNERS' USE.

WHITNEY'S
RAPID METHOD
FOR THE PIANOFORTE.

PART I.

Containing 184 pages, large size. Its system of in-
struction is easy, yet progressive, and music teachers
are rapidly adopting this NEW WORK.

Price only $2.00, postpaid.

SEND FOR A FULL DESCRIPTIVE CIRCULAR.

Address
THE W. W. WHITNEY CO.,
TOLEDO, O.

H. B. STEVENS & CO.,
Music Publishers & Importers,
169 TREMONT ST.,
BOSTON, MASS.

Agents for the Standard Cheap Editions—Peters,
Augener, Cotta, Breitkopf & Hartel,
Schlesinger, Etc.

We wish to call the attention of Directors of
Music in Schools and Seminaries, also of Music
Teachers in general, to our stock of Foreign and
American Music. We make a specialty of good
fingered editions, and when desired will send
selections of different grades for inspection.

SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID TO MAIL ORDERS.

TERMS LIBERAL. Catalogue sent free
on application, and
also Bulletin of New Music sent regularly
to those sending their address.

MUSICAL GAME.
ALLEGRANDO.
Instruction and Pleasure Combined.
A SPLENDID GAME FOR EVERY HOME.

This game consists of cards, on which the different notes and rests
found in music are printed. The cards are shuffled and dealt among
the players. Any player may add a card to the 'allegrando' if, in
doing so, he does not change the value of any of the notes already
played, so as to make the time too long or too short. The player who
first disposes of all his cards wins the game. This game is adapted
to the piano, organ, violin, or any other instrumentalist. It is valuable
in teaching the value of notes, rests, time, and reading at sight.

A splendid game for the young.

A new and interesting game of the 'musical seven.'

Teachers can use it in their classes with great benefit.

Price, 50 cents.

Address Publisher:
THEO. PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

THE ELEMENTS
OF
HARMONIC NOTATION.
For Classes or Individuals.

WILLIAM B. WAIT.

PRICE 50 CENTS.

A Preparation for the Study of Harmony.

Address Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

NEW, EASY AND PROGRESSIVE
Method for the Pianoforte.
BY JULIUS E. MULLER.

PRICE $1.00. BOUND IN BOARDS.

This is an entirely new work. The author is an active
teacher, who is well known as the composer of that once
popular parlor piece "Falling Leaves." The book
has a marked and distinct style. The names of
Streabbog and Spindler appear the oftener. The book
has very few exercises. Address
THEO. PRESSER,
No. 1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

Advice to Young Students of the Pianoforte,
BY ALBERT W. BORST.

PRICE, 10 CTS.

Some good advice for every one studying the piano.

SOLICITORS WANTED

To secure subscriptions for the Manual of Music, by
W. H. DOERING. This book, which is enjoying a
very large sale than any musical work of the price ever
offered to the public, is introduced exclusively by sub-
scription. Any person who desires to assist our rep-
resentatives to secure the largest subscriptions will find
it a pleasant and remunerative employment. We em-
ploy only those who possess the necessary intel-
ligence, address and general attainments, to enable
them to fully maintain the high character and literary
standing of the work, and to whom we offer permanent
situations at liberal salary or commission. We invite
correspondence. Address

MANUAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
416 Dearborn Street, CHICAGO, ILL.

Wm. Knabe & Co.
GRAND, SQUARE, and UPRIGHT
PIANO-FORTES

These Instruments have been before the Public for over
fifty years, and upon their excellence alone
have attained an
UNPURCHASED PRE-EMINENCE,
which establishes them as
UNEQUALED
in
Tone, Touch, Workmanship, and Durability!
Every Piano fully Warranted for 5 Years.

WM. KNABE & CO.,
22 & 24 E. Baltimore Street, BALTIMORE.
145 Fifth Ave., near 20th St., NEW YORK.
817 Pennsylvania Ave., WASHINGTON, D. C.

A CIRCULAR
TO THE MUSICAL PROFESSION.

"Profound," "instructive" and "beautiful" are
the attributes generally accorded the lectures of
the late Karl Merz. With singular skill he
wrestled with musical philosophy, musical history
and musical aestheticism, and he understood it to
deeply move the musician and to enchant the
amateur. Wherever he lectured he inspired a
greater estimate for the musical art and higher
respect for the musical profession.

He was often urged to issue his lectures in book
form, but he would invariably reply:—

"It is time enough when I am dead.
They may be published then to bene-
fit my wife, if she survives me."

This beautiful wish is to be carried out. Con-
stantin Sternberg, the distinguished pianist, and
Johannes Wolfram, the noted musician, will edit
the lectures gratuitously, and Dr. Charles H.
Merz, of Sandusky, O., the worthy son of the
late Karl Merz, has associated himself with his
father's special friend, Theodore Presser, in pub-
lishing said lectures.

Send your orders to

THEODORE PRESSER,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.,

or Dr. CHARLES H. MERZ,
SANDUSKY, O.

Price of Book, Mailed,
$1.50.

Description of non-textual images and ornamentation:
- At the top center is a large, plain masthead reading THE ETUDE with ornamental rule lines above and below; the page number "146" appears at the top left.
- In the Knabe & Co. advertisement at the top right there are two ornamental initial panels flanking the firm name; each panel contains decorative embossing and small illustrative motifs (one panel suggests a lyre or floral ornament; the other is an ornamental cartouche). The ad also uses bold, large typography and decorative rules to emphasize words like UNPURCHASED PRE-EMINENCE and UNEQUALED.
- The page is divided into three columns by thin vertical rules; many section headings use bold, capitalized type and occasional ornamental lines. There are no photographic portraits reproduced on this page, only typographic ornament and ornate display headings.
THE ETUDE.                                                                                                 147

BERN. BOEKELMAN'S
COMPOSITIONS.

Inauguration March. For four hands................... $1.00
Romanza. For Violin, or Violoncello, Op. 3. .......... 1.25
Ballabile. For Orchestra, Orchestra parts. ........... 1.00
------- For Piano, Op. 5. ........................... .90
Polonaise de Concert. For Piano Solo, Op. 4. ........ 1.00
Valse de la Reine. For Piano. ........................ .75
E. Chavel. Morceau Caracteristique, Op. 1. .......... .60
In der Einsamkeit. For String Octet, Op. 7, Score. ... .25
Schmuckstuck. For Piano Solo, Op. 8. ................ .50

Address THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

TEACHERS'
POCKET METRONOME.
SIMPLE, CONVENIENT, NEAT AND INEXPENSIVE.

[Illustration of a circular pocket metronome showing a dial with numbers around the rim and a hand pointing to a mark; the instrument appears round like a watch.]

Price, Nickel-plated, 50 Cents, Net, Postpaid.

Giving the correct Metronomic Marks after the Maelzel Standard, together with the True Tempos of all the Dances.

These instruments have been especially manufactured for THE ETUDE, and will be sent as a premium to any one sending two subscribers. Address

THEO. PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut St., Phila., Pa.

Grand Success! The Sleigh Ride.

[Small illustration of a horse-drawn sleigh, two horses in harness, a driver in front.]

By W. H. TILTON.
Greatly admired at the Garrison Musical entertainments, Boston, Dec. 22, '80.
Price 20 cts. In paper, 25 cts.; in boards, 50 cts.
Send for catalogue of Secular and Sacred Music.

THE
HENRY F. MILLER
PIANOS

HENRY F. MILLER & SONS'
PIANO COMPANY,
BOSTON. PHILADELPHIA.

Manufactury, Wakefield, Mass.

JUST OUT.
THE SCRATCH CLUB,
BY HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Doc.,
Professor of Music in the University of Pennsylvania,
Author of "Jerusalem," "The Art of Pianoforte Playing," "Practical Harmony," etc., etc.

" "It is a little book which will interest and amuse all classes. . . . The subject is treated with peculiar humor, and there is much caustic truth in the sketches which are so cleverly wrought." — HOME JOURNAL.

Price, Paper, 75 cents.
For sale by booksellers, or sent, postpaid, on receipt of price, by

THE POET-LORE CO.,
223 SOUTH 38TH ST., PHILADELPHIA.

JERUSALEM.
A GRAND ORATORIO.

By HUGH A. CLARKE, Mus. Doc.

Price $1.50, Bound in Boards.

The libretto of this Oratorio is taken from the Bible, and gives, in an epitomized form, the story of the taking of Zion by David—The prosperity of Jerusalem—The defection of Israel—The consequent destruction of the city and the king's captivity.

The theme now takes up the promise of restoration under the reign of the promised king—His coming—His rejection—The final desolation of the city—Concluding with the promise of the Heavenly City and the descent of the New Jerusalem.

The Oratorio is to be produced in April by the Philadelphia Chorus, with a large chorus and orchestra, and has already excited widespread interest among musical people as the first work of such magnitude written and produced in America.

THEODORE PRESSER,
PUBLISHER,
1704 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.

We have just published
PRACTICAL HARMONY;
DESIGNED FOR THE USE OF PIANO STUDENTS.
BY
DR. F. L. RITTER.

PRICE 75 CENTS IN PAPER. — $1.00 IN BOARDS.

A work of the greatest importance to students of harmony and the pianoforte. There is no other work of this kind in our language, and we are sure that it will occupy a distinguished place in the system of musical education. The pupils of the writer are brought to harmony. All the rules are covered in exercises of the most varied kind, to be played at the pianoforte. It is a good preparation for the study of composition and improvisation, calculated to incite the student to musical production. The work will help greatly to facilitate the young musician's difficult task regarding the thorough study of harmony.

THEO. PRESSER,
PUBLISHER,
1704 Chestnut Street.

DACTYLION.
FOR PIANO STUDENTS.

[Large detailed illustration of a human hand wearing a mechanical finger-strengthening device. The device straps across the back of the hand and each finger is fitted with a curved metal support that extends to the finger tips. Several small springs and levers appear to connect the finger supports, suggesting resistance for exercises. The device looks adjustable with straps around the wrist and across the hand.]

A new invention of great practical value and real benefit to the Piano Player.

To strengthen the fingers.
To improve the touch.
To increase the power and rapidity.
To cure incorrect positions of the hand.
To save time and boundless amount of labor.
Price $4.50, Net.

For circulars, terms, testimonials, &c., address THEO. PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut St., Phila.

TWO NEW BOOKS.

"Choice Classics,"

FOR PIANO.

A judicious selection from the works of foreign authors of the highest rank. A glance at the contents will be sufficient for players of musical discrimination. Printed from new engraved plates on finest quality music paper.

CONTENTS:
AIR DE BALLET ....................................... JADASSOHN
ALBUM LEAF .......................................... GURLITT
ALLEGRO ............................................... CHOPIN
AM TAGESANFANG ................................... GRIEG
AT MIDNIGHT ........................................ SCHUMANN
BICHO BUE .......................................... BEHR
BISMARCK ......................................... TANSMANN
CANONETTO ........................................ MOSCHELES
CARAITA SONG ................................... MENDELSSOHN
CAVATA .............................................. FIEBES
CHORALE .......................................... MENDELSSOHN
CIRCLE SONG ..................................... HENSEL
CONSOLATION ................................... LISZT
COUNTRY CULT .................................. WELLMER
CRADLE SONG .................................... BRAMBEER
DANSE RUSSE .................................... NABARRO
DELFT SONG ...................................... HOMER
DIE WETTERGEG .................................. SCHUBERT
DIN PASA ........................................... SCHUMANN
DITTO .................................................. RICHTER
DONNA ................................................ RICHTER
DRAMM SONG ..................................... SCHUMANN
ECHO .................................................. HAP
EIN VOTUM ........................................ SCHUMANN
ELFIN DANCE ..................................... MENDELSSOHN
EN VOYAGE ...................................... HENSEL
ETRETAT ........................................... M. CHAMBOURC
FAIRY SONG ..................................... SCHUMANN
FANFARE ........................................... LISZT
FEMALE SONG .................................. SCHUMANN
FLEURETTE ........................................ CHOPIN
FLOWER SONG .................................. HENSEL
FOURTH STUDY .................................. ALKAN
FREDERIC ......................................... SCHUMANN
FRIENDS SONG ................................ HENSEL
FUGUE ............................................... BACH
GLOOM ............................................. CHOPIN
HAPPY SONG ................................... BRAMBEER
HEAVEN ............................................ MENDELSSOHN
HUMORESQUE .................................. SCHUMANN
HUNTING SONG ................................ HENSEL
IDYLL ................................................ HENSEL
IN SPRINGTIME ................................ SCHUBERT
ISLAND SONG ................................... LISZT
JUBILATION .................................... HENSEL
LACHRIMAE .................................... CHOPIN
LA SPRISA ....................................... SCHUMANN
LULLABY .......................................... GURLITT
MALADIE ......................................... MENDELSSOHN
MARCH ............................................. BACH
MEDITATION .................................. MENDELSSOHN
MELODY .......................................... GURLITT
MINUET ........................................... MOZART
MORCEAU DE THEATRE ........................ CHOPIN
MORNING SONG ................................ HENSEL
MUSICAL MOMENT ............................ MENDELSSOHN
NAIVERIE ....................................... GURLITT
NAPOLEON ..................................... LISZT
NOCTURNE ...................................... CHOPIN
NOCTURNE ...................................... HENSEL
NORWEGIAN SONG ............................. LISZT
ON THE RIVULET ................................ SCHUMANN
OP. 23 ............................................. RICHTER
PASTORAL ....................................... MENDELSSOHN
PENSIERO ....................................... GURLITT
PIANO PIECE .................................. MENDELSSOHN
PIZZICATO .................................... GURLITT
POLOGNAISE .................................. CHOPIN
PRELUDE ....................................... CHOPIN
PRELUDE ....................................... MENDELSSOHN
RAVEL ............................................ HENSEL
REMINISCENCE ................................ CHOPIN
ROMANZA ....................................... MENDELSSOHN
RUSSIAN SONG ................................ GURLITT
SLEEP SONG .................................. HENSEL
SONG WITHOUT WORDS ........................ MENDELSSOHN
SOLDIER'S SONG ................................ CHOPIN
STUDY ............................................. CHOPIN
STUDY ............................................. HENSEL
STUDENT'S SONG ................................ SCHUMANN
TARANTELLA .................................. LISZT
TEMPEST ....................................... SCHUMANN
THE SEA ........................................ MENDELSSOHN
THE VILLAGE STREET .......................... HENSEL
TWO CAROLLES .................................. MENDELSSOHN
VALSE ........................................... CHOPIN
WALTZ .......................................... MENDELSSOHN
WALTZ .......................................... CHOPIN
WALTZ .......................................... SCHUMANN

Price, in Boards, .......................... $1.00
Price, in Cloth, ........................... 1.50

"Classic Duos,"

FOR PIANO AND VIOLIN.
(With extra Violin part in separate binding.)

Contains compositions by the best authors, and of absolutely unequaled merit. They will be found equally acceptable for concert performances or drawing-room pastime. The separate violin part relieves both performers of the discomfort of playing from one book. Issued in the same careful and costly style as "Choice Classics."

CONTENTS:
ANDANTE AND MARCHE .......................... BEETHOVEN
ANDANTE ........................................... DRINK
ANDANTINO ....................................... HENSEL
ARABELLA ......................................... HERMAN
AUTUMN LEAF ................................... MENDELSSOHN
AVENUE .......................................... GOUNOD
BAGATELLE ...................................... KOSS
BARCAROLLE .................................... F. MENDELSSOHN
BARCAROLLE .................................... CHOPIN
BERCEUSE ....................................... F. MENDELSSOHN
BERGER .......................................... GRAUEN
BRIDAL SONG .................................. HENSEL
BRIDAL VALSE ................................ HERMAN
BRILLIANT ..................................... RUBINSTEIN
BROKEN DANCE ................................ WEBER
CANTILENE ..................................... MENDELSSOHN
CHORALE ....................................... MENDELSSOHN
CONCERT POLONAISE .......................... PADEREWSKI
DELICATE ...................................... RICHTER
DREAM .......................................... GURLITT
ECHO ............................................ HENSEL
ERINNERUNG .................................. HUMMEL
FLEURETTE ..................................... MENDELSSOHN
GAVOTTE ....................................... MOZART
GNOMENREISE ................................ R. SCHUMANN
GRACEFUL ..................................... HENSEL
HABANERA ..................................... CHIQUETTI
HARLEQUIN .................................... CHOPIN
HYMN ............................................ MENDELSSOHN
IDYLLE ......................................... MOZART
IMPROVISATION ................................ HENSEL
INTERMEZZO .................................. MENDELSSOHN
IRENE .......................................... CHOPIN
JOCOSA ......................................... MENDELSSOHN
JUBILATE ...................................... HENSEL
LAGOON ........................................ GOUNOD
LAMENT ........................................ CHOPIN
LARGHETTO .................................... MOZART
MELANCHOLE .................................. SCHUMANN
MEDITATION .................................. BACH
MELROSE ....................................... MENDELSSOHN
MINUET ......................................... MOZART
MORCEAU DE SALON .......................... GOUNOD
MORSE .......................................... MENDELSSOHN
MUSICAL MOMENT ................................ MENDELSSOHN
NOCTURNE ...................................... CHOPIN
NOCTURNE ...................................... MENDELSSOHN
NOTTE .......................................... MENDELSSOHN
OCTAVO ....................................... HENSEL
OLD FOLK SONG ................................ MOZART
PARTITE .......................................... BACH
PASTORAL ...................................... MENDELSSOHN
PASSA CARRIERA ................................ HENSEL
PEACEFUL ...................................... GURLITT
PENSIERO ...................................... HENSEL
PIEZA .......................................... CHOPIN
PIEZE .......................................... MENDELSSOHN
POLONAISE .................................... CHOPIN
PRELUDE ........................................ MENDELSSOHN
PRESENTIMENT ................................ HENSEL
ROMANCE ........................................ MENDELSSOHN
ROMANCE ........................................ CHOPIN
ROSINA ......................................... MENDELSSOHN
SAVONAROLA .................................. HENSEL
SCHERZO ....................................... MENDELSSOHN
SERENADE ...................................... MOZART
SHEPHERD'S SONG ............................. HENSEL
SILENTIUM ...................................... MENDELSSOHN
SONG WITHOUT WORDS .......................... MENDELSSOHN
SONG ............................................ GURLITT
STUDY ........................................... MENDELSSOHN
SYMPATHY ...................................... MENDELSSOHN
TACIT .......................................... HENSEL
TROUBADOUR ................................... MENDELSSOHN
WALZER ......................................... CHOPIN
WALTZ .......................................... MENDELSSOHN

Price, in Boards, including separate Violin part, $1.00
" " Cloth, " " " " " " 1.50

FOR SALE AT ALL MUSIC STORES.

(End of page.)
148

THE ETUDE.

INSTRUCTIVE, INTERESTING and MUSICAL.

TWENTY STUDIES
FOR
THE PIANOFORTE,
OF MODERATE DIFFICULTY,
For Development of Style, Expression and
Technique.

INSCRIBED TO THE MUSIC TEACHERS OF AMERICA.
BY
ANTON STRELEZKI,
In Op. 100. — Volume II.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

A NEW BOOK ON A NEW PLAN.

MUSICAL MOSAICS.
By W. F. GATES.
Price One Dollar and Fifty Cents.

MUSICAL MOSAICS is a unique book. It is the first book in the English language that presents the very best sayings on musical topics, chosen from the thoughts and works of the best writers that have appeared in every language since the beginning of musical literature. The selections are arranged in subsections and the book is made evn more useful by the addition of a large number of the best biographical notes and sketches. Much labor has been spent upon the work in the library and book-trade rooms and in the music-halls and public libraries of the country. The book is of unusual interest to teachers and students and to the general musical public, just as much as it is to the specialist in musical biography and criticism. Besides the many and valuable general notes which have been collected and prepared for the book, a number of specially-compiled lists of the best songs, collections of light music, and selections for concert use have been given. The Mosaics will be found useful in the recital-room as well as in the library, for students, teachers and general readers. The work contains also about 170 brief biographies of the most important writers on musical subjects, and a large number of choice and characteristic quotations from the writings of the great musicians and literary authorities. The plan is new, and the execution is excellent.

170 AUTHORS.
600 QUOTATIONS.

We give below a few of the names of writers from whose works extracts have been made, and the number of quotations from them:

Beethoven, 18.    Christiani, 15.
Fillmore, 21.    Chopin, 11.
Hauptmann, 12.    Haydn, 12.
Liszt, 12.    Mendelssohn, 14.
Schumann, 60.    Wagner, 16.
Weber, 8.    Panser, 5.
Thibaut, 6.    Van Cleve, 7.

Space will allow us to mention but sixteen of the one hundred and seventy authors — these few will give an idea of the nature of the collection. A full list of authors and a table of contents will be sent on application.

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

EDWARD BAXTER PERRY’S
FANTASY FOR PIANO,
— DILE LORELEI. —
Based upon the German legend, and dedicated to Miss F. M. Pomeroy, of Boston.
This composition has been pronounced a most charming and effective work by all who have heard it. Price One Dollar.
For sale by the Publisher — THEO. PRESSER, 1704 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Introduction to Studies in Phrasing.
FIRST LESSONS
IN
Phrasing and Musical Interpretation.

W. S. B. MATHEWS.

PRICE - - - - - $1.50.

The author has brought together a valuable collection of little pieces, musical and poetic in quality, within the ability of children's fingers and within the range of the children's minds. They are taken from the most successful collections of this class of tone poems for children the world can show.

There are, in all, 34 distinct pieces; among them will be found —

Melodie ................................. Schumann.
Slumber Song ............................ Gurlitt.
Three Angles ............................. Reinecke.
Happy Farmer ........................ Schumann.
Holiday Eve ............................. Baumfelder.
Ghost Story ............................. Reinhold.
Jovial Huntsman ....................... Merkel.
Study-Game of Tag .................... Heller.
Good Night ............................... Loeschhorn.
A Little Story ........................... Kullak.

WITH PIECES BY
MENDELSSOHN, SPINDLER,
BEETHOVEN, LICHNER,
FORESTER, CAYRHOS,
ETC.

The pieces are all closely annotated, fingered, etc. There is also, at the beginning of the work, a few chapters on the object and manner of using the work; Rudiments of Musical Form; Phrasing; What it is to Play with Expression; Subjective and Objective in playing, etc.

The work is intended to precede the two volumes of "Studies in Phrasing," which are among the most popular musical text-books now used in the country. As a work of genuine usefulness in teaching, the volume cannot be excelled.

We will, for a limited time, offer the work at reduced rates.

OUR SPECIAL OFFER.
50 cents will procure a copy, when published, if sent with ten cents for postage and packing.

Address publisher,

THEODORE PRESSER,
1704 Chestnut Street,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

COOL MUSIC BOOKS!
No, not Cool, but filled with that Restful, Harmonious, Soothing Music, which helps one wonderfully to Endure Extremes of Weather, Hot or Cold.

(If you have no Guitar, Mandolin, Banjo, Flute or Violin, call or send for list of the Instruments at our branch store, C. H. DITSON & CO., 347 Broadway, N. Y.)

SABBATH-DAY MUSIC. For Piano. 38 beautiful Melodies, nicely arranged. Price 50 cts.

Vol. 2 of Miss Eleanor W. Everett's ALBUM OF SONGS. 12 two-part songs by the best authors. Price 75 cts.

COLLEGE SONGS. New, enlarged edition. 32 jolly Songs. 200,000 sold. Price 60 cents.

OLD FAMILIAR DANCES. For the Piano. 100 of them. Easy, and all the best pieces. Price $1.00.

FOR MUSIC FESTIVALS.

THE ATLAS, By Carl Zerrahn. 25 popular Oratorios, Sacred and Secular. Most of them quite new. $1.00.

CHOICE SACRED SOLOS. 34 fine songs. $1.
CHOICE SACRED SOLOS, for Low Voice. 40 songs. $1.
SONG CLASSICS, Soprano and Tenor, 50 songs. $1.
SONG CLASSICS, Low Voice, 47 songs. $1.
CLASSIC BARITONE AND BASS SONGS. $1.
CLASSIC TENOR SONGS. 36 songs. $1.
CHOICE VOCAL DUETS, The very best. $1.
EVEREST'S ALBUM OF SONGS, good selections. $1.
MAUD V. WHITE'S ALBUM, tasteful songs. $1.
SULLIVAN'S VOCAL ALBUM, a master's work. $1.
POPULAR SONG COLLECTION, 37 good songs. $1.
GOOD OLD SONGS we used to sing, 115 songs. $1.
COLLEGE SONGS, 116,000 sold. $1.
COLLEGE SONGS FOR BANJO; FOR GUITAR, each. $1.
RHYMES AND TUNES, Osgood. Sweet home music. $1.

INSTRUMENTAL.

PIANO CLASSICS, Vol. 1, 41 pieces. $1.
PIANO CLASSICS, Vol. 2, 42 pieces. $1.
CLASSICAL PIANIST, 42 pieces. $1.
POPULAR PIANO COLLECTION, 27 pieces. $1.
POPULAR DANCE MUSIC COLLECTION. $1.
YOUNG PEOPLE'S CLASSICS, 32 easy pieces. $1.
The above are all superior books. $1.

EMERSON'S NEW RESPONSES. (50 cts. 35 cts. 60)
Quartet and Chorus Choirs; 72 short pieces of sacred music for the choir and congregation. 35 cts. per dozen.

THE TEMPERANCE CRUSADE. (35 cts. & 60)
L. O. Emerson and Edward Moore. Earliest, refined, elevated poetry and music, which, to our minds, is the best class of musical literature for temperance meetings. 35 cents.

SONG HARMONY. (60 cts. & 75 cts.) By J. O. Emerson. For the singer's singing classes. Arranged in easy parts; adapted for choir and chorus work.

SONG MANUAL. (80 cts., 1.00, 1.25 & 1.50)
30 choice songs, nicely arranged for singing schools and social use. $1.00.

CLASSIC FOUR-HAND COLLECTION. ($1.) Nine of the best four-hand pieces in the literature of the piano, by Godard, Deutsch, Heller, Raff and others.

YOUNG PLAYERS' COLLECTION. A capital book for young players; easy pieces for study and recital. $1.00.

WHITNEY'S POPULAR SONG COLLECTION. 100 songs for the Parlor and the School. $1.00.

WHITNEY'S VOCALIST. A useful collection for school and singing classes. $1.00.

OPERATIC PIANO COLLECTION. ($1.) The best arrangements of the popular operatic airs, adapted for the Piano-forte.

PIANO COLLECTION. ($1.) 19 of the best operatic airs — arranged for the Piano-forte.

Choice Sacred Solos. For Soprano, Mezzo-Soprano or Tenor. Songs for church and home. $1.00.

Choice Sacred Duets. For Soprano and Alto. $1.00.

The best Compositions of the highest grade in this list can be had at all Music Dealers' stores. Books mailed at retail prices.

Any Book Mailed for Retail Price.

OLIVER DITSON COMPANY,
BOSTON.
C. H. DITSON & CO., 347 Broadway, N. Y.      LYON & HEALY, Chicago.
J. E. DITSON & CO., 1228 Chestnut St., Phil.  (Branches)

(Note: The page consists of three vertical columns of advertisements and short descriptive articles. At the top center is the periodical title “THE ETUDE” with the page number 148 at the upper left. Decorative rules and small ornamental typography separate headings. The left column advertises new piano studies and “Musical Mosaics,” including price and publisher’s address; the center column announces “First Lessons in Phrasing and Musical Interpretation” with a list of the included short pieces and contributing composers and a special offer from Theodore Presser, 1704 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia; the right column is a dense advertisement headlined “COOL MUSIC BOOKS!” listing many vocal and instrumental collections, prices, and the publisher Oliver Ditson Company of Boston. The page shows varied typefaces, small ornamental motifs and rules, and three-column layout with narrow margins.)