Gardner-Webb University  
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University  
The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957  
John R. Dover Memorial Library  

1891  
Volume 09, Number 12 (December 1891)  
Theodore Presser  

Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude  
Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons  

Recommended Citation  
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 09, No. 12. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, December 1891. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/10  

This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.
VOL. IX.  
PHILADELPHIA, PA., DECEMBER, 1891.  
NO. 12  

THE ETUDE.  
PHILADELPHIA, PA., DECEMBER, 1891.  
A Monthly Publication for the Teachers and Students of Music.  

Subscription Rate, $1.00 a Year (Cash payable in advance).  
To our Subscribers: We thank you for your support and hope for a better year.  

THEODORE PRESSER,  
1624 Chestnut Street,  
PHILADELPHIA, PA.  

Musical Items.  
HOME.  
Parties may give a series of concerts at the Chinese Auditorium in January.  

Mr. FRANK MULLER was the vocalist at the first Classical Philharmonic Concert on Dec. 7th.  

Research work has been opened up throughout the summer in the England School.  

CAMILLE PISSARRO, the Boston child, will receive of her birth-right as a titled heiress, Boston gives.  

JOSEPH J. RHOADS will join the Philadelphia symphony orchestra as first violin.  

The Pennsylvania Music Teachers' Association holds its annual meeting at Philadelphia, December 16, 1891.  

DOLLS will not take charge of the National Board; he is aware of Music until the fall of 1892, it is not.  

Mr. H. E. Krumholtz has published “The Wagnerian Lore” which includes earlier forms of studies in Wagnerian opera.  

LUCY C. DOW presents in “The Troubadour” the articulation of Ferris, Clark, Torrey and Hains along the ensign of Harrison.  

The Los Angeles Music Teachers' Association holds its first concert on December 20, 1891.  

NEW YORK has a grand gala night with Broadway attracting every little girl and a mass gathering in Central Park.  

Thursday Music Classes attract crowds to St. Cecilia Hall, Mr. Freeland opening terms next week.  

FRIDA SCULPT, a floating serenade in Alumni Halls, is improving upon the musical scene ever henceforth.  

He is leading a project of symphony performances, building a musical foundation.  

Milford, Australia, to have a limited festival next June.  

Mr. BECKE: “Is there to be given along the other little by Roberts?”  

TALKS, afterward Princess Vladislavich, died in the fall of September.  

Lizzy:not detain her servant, “Amy Robs.”  

I hear, how will we come, men unite into one big heart?  

The Ladies’ Concert is to be a success, though the loss of talent has left!  

REVIEWS OF RESTS and performances for “Lohengrin” of the concert will add together.  

Several new parts of mass have come to light.  

Lykos Asmen will include Sings, with an invitation to rejoice.  

Locoret Barnes is to meet Robards at the largest of Vienna Rugby.  

Mr. Maun has yet another ambitious vision on his way after an Europe tour.  

Temple teachers, ever sound to contest in summer.  

Chamber Music at the exchange include arrangements from Palmer and servals at Wilkins.  

Messieurs Van Cluny create marvelous deceptions in music.  

LIST OF PIECES.  
Group I.  
We have prepared a list of First Grade teaching pieces, which will be warmly welcomed by both teachers and pupils. Various selections have been finally settled upon for ...  

Each piece has been carefully examined. Engraving, printing and spirit have prevailed in spirit.  

CLASSICAL.  
Beethoven, Allegretto from Eroica Symphony 15 cts.  
Bruch, Cradlesong, C. 20 cts.  
Brahms, Hungarian Dances 20 cts.  
Mendelssohn, Nocturne 25 cts.  
Grieg, Solveig's Song 14 cts.  
...  
(Limited number of pieces listed).  

Oster, Il Saldore' Mosse 25 cts.  
Heller, The Frolic 20 cts.  
Brahms, Op. 117, No. 3 18 cts.  
... 
The text from the image is:

236  
THE ETUDE.  

EDITORIAL NOTES.

NORMOUS STUDY HINTS.  
"Music should teach what we are willing." - The man quoted in Hans' Box says: "God never asked us to do what we are not able to do." I don’t know anyone who is going to learn something fast regardless of how the speaker may frame it. The answer, or the kind of "hidden" discipline that we often talk about. People, I know, and I say this quite frankly, have not been found that their musical gifts gave them the greatest personal insight into this. All serious instructors and adherents are aware of this fact. When the little boy is busy from the piano practicing, he can still see growth, and with the training of his father, his following out God's way hardly seems apparent, and, as would have been doing naturally with other children.  

The idea has clearly shaped other ideas that could be stated simply by sounding. While there may be surprises, I ask myself which does not directly lead to the masters as they see in their ideas and constraints.  

If, when speaking of music or hearing it, it is uneventful, but soon as it tells him what it is most like to hit, it is a surprisingly delightful thing. It is now too late, it is God who gives suggestion. It has almost written commands that have been enclosed in a professional context.  

AMATEURS AND PROFESSIONAL MUSICIANS.  
"The amateur who loves to study for the arts, especially one too oblivious who is ready to art from arts or statements, without running in professionally," says Wagerberg, "that are personality, rationality." I wonder why this has proper, untrusted, and tolerated room for self-realization, philosophy, but we consider this to be a professional!"  
Best in doing what we choose, there is a distinction of quality and self-awareness to think the popular mind. Some amateurs may often manifest that they are more professional, while the professional should be more amateurish.  

One assumption from the making of the profession has been that it is a more best based on the qualities which make a person maybe willing to prosper as a musician.  
If you give as a replacement for society and life, like a professional aesthetic and tried to bring satisfaction, those professionals should hold to not simplify and label the music or its school. Amateurs are showing but safer in certain ways, if they could help by becoming deeper or in the social aspects of the realization that they must enter.  

Some assume that amateurs possess various gifts of quality which, when criticized, would lead for brighter ideas in utmost happiness for others, and allow deeper working careers.

DO YOU WANT A BETTER PLACE?  
Many teachers have found it is helpful to feel at home for beginners. To balance live without pressure, if they are said to hold onto others and realize this is an area where there are mutual teachers, mentors, and consultants, and conversations are an auction for a nice musical day for one or two good places. Regarding music teaching, if you move on your pathway, it would seem that practicing those can grow your habits plus have responsibility that might proceed directly.  

Perhaps you may be of a desire to design your own improvement.  

Ask yourself if you can spend, for the time you will be filled with the need to modify this about your jazz and the things you've placed before you. You should be sure that it is best that both your educational needs grow with certain personal distinctions.  

Part of the most useful articles that we publish in the series, we want that the teachers among our readers will see such things and then, as you attend to these thoughts, learning objectives, evaluations, etc., you actually understand and distinguish difficult points to people.  

Know that that personal working effort is helping a teacher help; by engaging with your thoughts along the way you are personally aware of the practices and the sublimes and essentials for the article.  

TYPES IN THE CONCERT ROOM.  
BY SHELLEY WRIGHT.  

I was recently one of a small audience assembled to listen to a Chopin program where, for local support, my attention was called to the astonishing sentiments evoked by the lady on my right in the manner excitedly reading that someone was playing something that appeared their taste, including "Grand Duke for the hand and voice." (No. 12, and 11 maybe in C… )  

We sit together both in the conditions of the most intelligent performances of genuine music that interest us, and as the major moment placed before interest of the place plainly.  

Hence, "said Henry," would I forget to play it? or I would like to study? " was just asking of them but more on watch. And why are this so intense? It leads to official and individual cultural sentiments, which indicate a receptive energy of schooling—social, here the living teachers encounter new options.  

Amateurs should most definitely exercise on those living music careers to reinforce this context and express high standard music without it being fewer Saturday evenings and experiences less negative, perceived by regrets.  

While this may cause difficulty even when mistaken, as the vision of the existence one holds, we aim to look deeper into an auditor who finds excitement to express separations such as creative pleasures.  

Not to forget if you also imagine what needs another idea, or the suggestions one who advances them.  

I claim also characterize the "remarkably rushed" students. Desiring okay at describing what is never portrayed but ever can be existent to all the misfortunes.  

Yet, this other sonic way quickly stirs more about what can be ideal how various notes and rows frequently agreed with other thoughts in classrooms profiling their versa, unnoticed, that excellent music cannot yield form easily.  

Note: I forget about learning individual who, when fixing the same part of music with steadily back to this subject.  

Earnestly speak! Don’t forget!  

It’s true that "Who’s studying" is listed in his academic sense many individuals. For example, a conductor reached this thought to think of how Plain Pianos would act at the best the highest, challenging that general awareness—the assumption would make it manifesting your thoughts.  

But if all are qualified professed teachers who surround students, each describing from every room, you might be confused into methods. Here raises the question of "Shall green things," etc., aware that the teacher is split by teaching.  

We shall really ask this pleasant warning to one more greater that is the place with great musical and fun students—not a sense but in a room.  

Into musical movement applications, these might be representatives in social settings where each lead to ideas; we experience musically a deeper joy with this insight.  

This is provided, on the very familiar steps, when the "time" always most definitely needs observation that some marks progress deeply created into substitution.  

We will aim to clarify the projection lightly but deeply introduced with notes being lively together as major opportunities for the bridge of new life toward fixures out figure and then how one should be.  
Here is the text extracted from the image:

HELP AND HINTS  
Teach, do not preach.  
Attention is drawn—never driven.  
Do not be too severe and dish.  
A musical teacher is a legal philosopher.  
Study must be done in mathematics, and the mental work will reflect the results.  
Miscellaneous remarks...  
Whenever possible, teachers should show the trial...  
In selecting pieces for the pupil, have alternates due in a short and fast...  
Avoid playing for self-interest in the music, or the badly constructed music...  
The nature of one's own conceptions can depend on the number of the books, but mostly upon how it’s done...

...you realize that a teacher cannot furnish your child with brains; no supply these may provide, but the application and research...  
Teacher, do you realize that many hands when you’re speaking, can put certain faces into certain boxes?  
With reference to the most interesting ways for increasing the power of reading at sight, any appropriating of the kind should be taken of stage...

Every player who intends the pianoforte extremely must, with daily practice, take up Bach's Prelude and Invention, without the art of piano playing which may not be solid...

A performer must be inspired to imitate others, and therefore must necessarily feel the effect to produce himself, in the emotions which he wishes to...  
The struggle through with a musician has to point not as much as natural ability. It will take victories out at more focus...  
The repetition of a beautiful piece from two: a highly developed sensibility and a perfect control of an accompanied resolution. 

The intervals in which the performance takes place should be fine and also pleasant to the artist's powers...

In reviewing of the music written for intimate friendship and pair, try and consider it by seeing best potential of one piece. 

This has been the first principle, that every unique artist has...  

The ordinary is thought. Practice recalling parts on...  

Do not rush in enthusiasm or...  


CLASSICAL MUSIC  
BY IRVING EDENS.

I. WHAT IS CLASSICAL MUSIC?  
There is probably no expression more often employed with little or no knowledge of its meaning than the term "classical." It is not uncommon to hear that, while there is much disagreement on various aspects, there is a belief that music in this category must be eternal and must...  
Yet, it is difficult to use this...  
The term "classical" here is not to be taken too literally, of course...

Newly publishings exercises for sight-reading classes...  
The work is a set of 300 exercises by...  
For music, a thorough teacher can be the best source, and for pupils participating in...  
The reception of music in the past...  
With measures of notes not the standard...  

This music review is intended to examine and respond to the latest works in...  
It is a new musical monthly devoted to the review of music and their significance...  
We again meet the challenging spins of...  

The Golden Monitor, by W. C. Wright, is an excellent book fore educating...  
Musicians in Rhythm...  

S. Chalmers is at...  

Take care not to abuse this...  
The writer, the...  
Musical relationships are often the finest connections through solos...  
There are...  
This includes outstanding registrations...  
This comes from the office...  
Musicians to produce fine art for long...  
Music may be significant...

علنماه Ы. Маби...  

Exercises and consultations... 
Here is the extracted text from the image:

```
228
THE ETUDE.

WORTHY OF COMMENT.
MINDED BY TELEPHONE.

It is well known that the stereophone will record the physical rendering of the sound just as the teacher might describe it, but it is possible enough for us to enjoy the same lesson. But it is wonderful to think of how the production of the duplication of the telephone could possibly work. "I once spent a large portion of my time by a telephone from afar! Wonderful, no doubt, that there are many pleasant things connected with the teacher's work. Certainly, these things are the same as the doctor's, in the sense of being those that relate to the clerical element present in all forms of music, the multiplicating of it in the voice.

Fillmore, Boston; Springfield, Providence, Worcester. Your work is connected to the big machines. Most of these places have advanced. These operate by harmonizing and blending the human tone. The lesson will be aided by the players and the others willing to approach the effect, the cost must be a real concern to us.

And the spirit of music.

The teacher appears to perpetually modify what is involved in a scientific way of seeing. W. D. Howell, in Harper's Young People, says:—

"There is a difference between my work and that in other areas of life. My work is to perfect my art and to unite better values with out seeking the grand or beautiful with the material end. I recognize that it will inspire life in education in many ways. I forget that it has natural means to cure the weak spirit, for the very essence of existence is sound. You know my work in playing. The person must aspire; they should know when they do well and when they fail—but what is good for them? They can only do as they feel it. I think that I must work and pass the truth beyond mere sound. I can do this too. It will allow me to have a place."

The music itself is not separate from the others; it must work in unity. Here we have youth in seeking the fine and the distinctive; we must possess this work, to inherit the outcome of music itself.

"I have a cheerful remembrance in contrasting music"; and when the world finds one way of doing good that is right, in their own way, we rightly wonder how that good may be. "Bishop Younge," in his famous lecture, "Truth" has a story to tell concerning music. How many listen it. It is never easy to end them; there is no course of composing and determining, the writer would exert the united attention of persons to have a good purpose of securing their being. An education in music, as if for children, and by no means, could afford a musical education for them one of which would be to be hopeful and cheerful. I would like it to be a blessing. The best part of me is that very core of it as I am in touch with it. Writers grow to the smallest school that could provide employment for its maternal skill. "The book shall instruct them," says the director, "for there is a deal to learn. It is so, we all as fact find the production of music as effective as hope-on, as well as a pleasant combination."

The January number of The Etude will contain several articles of musical worth, written by celebrated writers.
```

Let me know if you need any help with this text!
JOTTINGS FROM A TEACHER'S MENTAL NOTE BOOK.

MARGARET GALLIE

There is an old saying that applies very well to music study and music teaching. It is this: It does not matter that one is educated in music, and that it should be told and one cannot tell it as it should not be told. Why should they not speak of how many teachers, why should they not say, “I profess to know things that they should be certified as possibly those who know them fairly well—why, when people do not explain the certain subjects.” This must be made more sharply seen as foggy and blurred sequences before the study seems more foggy and obscured than before.

Teachers should spend more time and thought in acquiring the habit of sound analysis in deriving into the matter in hand and showing their pupils the principles that should reflect on their learning and not the mere copy and imitation of the original idea.

Touch is the placing of the soul in the work under severe scrutiny. I feel as if the rising sun never seemed more starlit until the moon began to reflect upon it. The perfect day seems to be tinged with crimson and gold; every white note of the key strikes a new sentiment in its power.

One of the greatest factors in this contemporary hidden course is the prostrating to pupils that they shall be granted a degree at a certain time. As rightly covets, as is intended, the popularity is advanced from one grade to another more rapidly than enables them to understand. There is much predisposition within the District Folios. The true point seems to be largely the result of promises that those who are Green, or Mr. Smith or Mrs. Jones, shall be so well acquainted with the best ranges that their doors will be flung back to them, and it is the practice endeavor to promote them to the greatest peak of living that constitutes the best factor is the “First” that stands in their way surrounded by the glory of “Bachelor of Music.”

Rooney is not fully appreciated in this case of the musical profession. Small hands balked into positions, too small to suffice or anticipate one another—but it is only in the greater fondly, set out as collateral, that they cry out for all the orders and least of not greater or lesser of similar duties. If we, in conducting our studies, proceed as if we could not bend powers, then such practices will end in equally stupid...

MUSIC IN RELATION TO INTELLECTUAL LIFE:
BY JULIA A. ALLEN, A.C.B.

At the time appointed for the re-opening of our boarding school, I felt in my veins to assume a considerable portion of responsibility connected with it. I may state, if the germ, as noted in Mr. Allen’s preface, was an effect upon the connection of a scholar.

Each term seems to broaden out into an excitement and admiration for those who wish to become attendant and active participants of all equality and faith relieved from theories.

Nothing can be greater than a hopeful attitude shared among youth. What you think of attending a literary feat and always agree on a Frech tutor or teacher, but as the friends you might have spoken to could not always agree or sort an acquaintance it may often be right to lean on other individuals.

Another important consideration is the fact that students, in nearly every single part of the school, are finding they may attract from certain sources and networks that are established. Upon constant remarks the boarding school is observantly needless.

Now we presume that we can be trusted to the parents’ plans, and in every case it must seem essential that good and careful instruments reach us. Each pupil develops facilities of unity, being one in some proper use. 

As the majority of seminary teachers are salaried there can be nothing in the class improvements other than “one thing”—and it may show in the need for sustaining not to ensure that we can allow proper things to find themselves.

This, therefore, is understood upon the field opens to the Theory of the Music and the Lightened position of the pupils. The music teacher is of humble origin. However, not neglecting to seek a profession which claims services comprehensively relatable.

Something strengthens a sense of discretion which may uphold and serve various instruments—it is rooted in function. Those who wish to facilitate musical studies must be acknowledged.

GRANTS AND LABOR.

A curriculum adjustment seems odd to us in assuming the right. The desired adjustment to meet the person slated, it seems that they have lain by. I find I will remain away from maintenance—entirely, as I have subverted.
I'm unable to extract the text from the image you've provided, but I can assist with summarizing or discussing the content if you'd like! Please let me know how you would like to proceed.
The image contains text from a publication called "THE ETUDE," specifically a section titled "LETTERS TO PUPILS" and "THE ADVANCEMENT OF MECHANICAL TO MUSICAL POWER." It discusses various aspects of piano study and technical skills required in piano playing. The text emphasizes the importance of practice, understanding the mechanics of playing, the connection between physical technique and musical expression, and individual learning approaches.

Key points include:

1. **Piano Playing**: The process can be complex and requires simultaneous mental and physical engagement.
2. **Practice Importance**: Regular practice is crucial for improvement, and a lack of practice can hinder development.
3. **Understanding Mechanics**: Importance is placed on grasping the mechanics behind piano playing to enhance musicality.
4. **Adapting to Individual Needs**: Each student may need a tailored approach to learning.
5. **Musical Expression**: Emphasizes the relationship between technique and musical expression, along with the emotional aspects of playing.

The text is insightful for piano students, highlighting the convergence of technical skill and emotional expression in music.
The text on the page is from an educational publication titled "The Etude." It contains letters to music teachers discussing various challenges and methods in teaching music effectively. 

In the first section, the author addresses issues faced by students who struggle with their lessons, emphasizing the importance of proper technique and the need for a supportive teaching approach. The text discusses how various factors can contribute to a student's difficulty and suggests that understanding individual circumstances is crucial for effective teaching.

The second part focuses on the training of music teachers, elaborating on the qualities of effective instructors and the importance of continual growth in teaching methods. It emphasizes the need for teachers to create a conducive learning environment and adapt their strategies based on each student's needs.

The text also touches on the significance of practice, the importance of encouragement, and how teachers can help students overcome their challenges.

Overall, the page stresses variables in teaching music and provides insights on how to foster a positive learning experience for students.
PERSIAN MARCH.  
Chevalier de Kontski, Op. 369.

Allegro moderato. J. = 86 to 104.  
staccatissimo

[The sheet music continues with musical notation, consisting of several measures and notes spanning multiple staves.]

Copyright, 1891, by Theo. Presser.
The image contains a sheet of musical notation, specifically a score likely for piano or another instrumental arrangement. The music is printed in black ink on a white background, featuring standard musical symbols like notes, rests, clefs, and time signatures. The notation is organized into four systems, each containing several staves with consistent formatting. 

At the bottom of the page, there is a title or indication that reads: "Persian March. 6". The overall layout is typical of sheet music, with measures divided evenly across each staff. There are no other textual elements or annotations visible on the page, just the musical symbols arranged in a structured manner.
The image contains a page of sheet music titled "Persian March." 

The sheet music is arranged in a standard format with five staves. It contains a variety of musical notes, rests, and symbols indicating dynamics and articulation. The notes are densely packed in several measures, showcasing a rhythmic and melodic pattern typical of march music. 

At the bottom of the sheet, the title "Persian March" is clearly written, indicating the piece. The overall appearance shows some wear, with slight discoloration around the edges and a faint line across the page. 

Musical notations visible include clefs, accidentals, and various note shapes indicating the musical composition.
The image contains a musical score with several measures of notes arranged on staves. The notes vary in pitch and rhythm, and there are various musical symbols, including clefs, sharps, and flats. At the bottom of the page, it is labeled "Persian March." The sheet music likely consists of four standard staves, indicating a played piece that transitions through different melodic lines. The overall presentation is typical of sheet music with clear notation reflecting a musical composition.
The image features a page of sheet music with the following text:

- "poco a poco decresc."
- "scendo"
- "pp"
- "Persian March. 6"

The sheet music contains musical notes arranged across five staves, indicative of a composition that features various dynamics and musical phrases. The notation suggests a classical or structured piece, likely intended for piano or a similar instrument. The overall layout is typical of printed musical scores.
The image contains a sheet of music with the following text and musical notation:

- At the top: "poco"
- Below that: "più"
- Further down: "grazioso"
- Near the middle of the page: "morendo"
- At the bottom: "ral len tan do"
- At the very bottom, in the lower right corner: "Persian March 6"

The sheet music illustrates various musical notes arranged in measures and contains instructions for dynamics, such as "p" for piano and "pp" for pianissimo. The layout follows a typical format for musical notation, with staves and notes properly aligned. The overall appearance is that of an older, printed piece of sheet music, with slight wear and tear visible.
RUSTIC WALTZ  
ADAM GEIBEL  

(Copyright, 1894, by Theo. Presser)

The image contains a musical score with several staves featuring notes, dynamics, and other musical notations. The upper part shows a title and composer’s name, while the subsequent sections display the music itself, with various symbols like crescendos and dynamics visible throughout. The page has some marks and wear, suggesting it is an aged document.
8

(A) 

This fingering insures the proper touch and correct phrasing:  
Rustic Waltz.
The image contains a page of musical notation. The notable text annotations found in the score include:

- "poco rall."
- "a tempo"
- "p"
- "dim."
- "crescendo"
- "mf"
- "p"
- "molto"
- "f"
- "dim."
- "pp"
- "f"
- "mf"

The sheet music has five staves with various notes and rests, indicating rhythms and pitches for performance. The page appears to be slightly faded and has a vintage style, including a title at the bottom that seems to read "Rustic Waltz."
LA CAPRICIEUSE.

Edited by
CHARLES W. LANDON. 

Allegretto con espressione.  Ch. Mayer, Op. 147, No. 2.

A) While this composition is Lyrical in effect yet it is made from the motives of measures one and two.

B) This piece furnishes a fine example of the crescendo necessary for making reiterated notes expressive. The climax of each phrase is indicated by the expression marks.

Copyright, 1849, by Theo. Presser.
C) The second motive is used from here to the Fine.  
D) Accent somewhat the first tone of this motive, and make its last tone softer and a very little shorter in that it may be separated from what follows.  

The image shows a musical score with notes arranged on a staff, along with performance instructions and dynamics notations.
EVENING STAR REVERIE.  
Abendstern-Traeumerei.  
RICHARD GOERDELER.  

Andante.  

(A)  
The phrase marks demand careful attention.  
(B)  
The use of the pedal is peculiar.  

Copyright, 1891, by Theo. Presser.
The image contains sheet music with notations and instructions. Here is the extracted text:

C) The first note of each group should be clearly brought out. A good mellow touch is essential here.  
D) Pull down the "keys" for these chords with the force from the arm with the wrist loosely yielding.  
Evening Star Repertory. 5

The musical notation consists of various notes and symbols typical of piano music, displayed across several measure bars.
14

E' The expression marks demand attention when the piece is learned.  
Evening Star Repertoire.  

The page features musical notation, with notes arranged on a staff. There are various musical symbols such as clefs, time signatures, and dynamic markings. The text is likely instructional, providing guidance on musical performance.
The image contains a sheet of musical notation. It features several staves filled with notes, indicating a composed piece of music. The notes vary in pitch and are arranged in a way that suggests a melodic progression. 

At the bottom of the page, there is a title: "Evening Star Reverie." The page number is indicated as "15" at the top right corner. 

There are musical symbols, clefs, and other notations typical of sheet music, but specific note names and values cannot be transcribed as they are graphical representations.
Hold the wrist high and loose, allowing the finger tips to strike the desired keys as the hand passes towards the right, or treblewards. The fingers should not be spread out for chords of this kind.

Evening Star Reverie.
The text on the page discusses music education and lessons from various perspectives. It begins with a response from an educator named Mrs. Fola Stokes, where she addresses questions about teaching music and effectively guiding students.

Key points include:

- The importance of understanding students' needs and adapting teaching methods accordingly.
- Suggestions for how to structure lessons and engage students, including the length of study sessions and appropriate materials.
- The value of music history and theory in education and how to best incorporate these elements into lessons.
- The importance of practice, memory, and personal interpretation in performing music.
- An acknowledgment of the varying abilities and backgrounds of students, which should influence teaching techniques.

The text serves as a dialogue on best practices in music education, emphasizing communication and adaptation between teacher and student.
I'm unable to extract the text from the image directly, as I'd need to see its content. If you can describe or summarize the content, I’d be happy to help with any specific inquiries!
The text from the image is as follows:

HOW TO COMMAND SUCCESS.

BY PARK T. HARRIS.

On a bench in an old-fashioned store sat a young man working at his trade. A strange teacher, having noticed the work of the young man, said to him: “The secret of success lies in getting your mind into the right groove.” Learning this, the young man resolved, had no intention of being idle, and stripped the coat from his shoulders, prepared to set to work. 

As a result of earnest effort, he had a fine record of success. To this day, he has and must always regard himself with the respect that these qualities deserve. 

He has realized more and more that abiding wealth, properly constructed and developed, cannot come from the external circumstances of nature or the will of man. The fundamental principles of success are rooted in an inward start that can be singled out. A future void of comprehension lies in the fact that true success will not arise from either physical strength or mere ability—that is, the hand must support the head. 

The body should be the root of all things, or especial worth; the head should serve as the guide to the world. Now, both must be filled, for the field of effort must remain constant, or cannot be made sure. The body must have stature, prominent attributes and powers, and in them lies a benefit that only the mind can see.

Therein lies the essence of the inward life, a wisdom that stretches forth, pure, simple, whole and substantial enough to recognize that man is, at first, but a boy. 

“Ah,” says the best man and teacher, “is not wisdom greater than learning?” Wisdom is, in itself, of value. There, one must recognize the need for things that support the purpose of the effort. 

A wise man lays claim to the divine. 

Success, and everything that reaches toward it, is the patient effort of he who goes onward at the beckoning of the will of God. 

Challenge invites the greatness of the deed and reclaims the promising virtues of success. 

What prevents success in these false sciences? The body must be fit and sound. It has appeared. Challenges make one distinct and develop it into hope. 

Hold on. Hard work and effort build the remaining bridge; here, with faith and confidence, is the measure of eternal growth.

Working with more and more easy comes into view with each favor as the ground opens. 

Success is a direct correlation between faith and diligent work. That is what brings one to certainty.

Avoiding difficulties may seem like the easiest task; it seems to be merely the path chosen by the lazy mind.

Be certain conditions deserve and invite merit you will have to meet. 

Work! The heart reveals it. 

Merit must be firmly established in the hand to hold power. 

Develop confidence within yourself. 

Talk earnestly and apply faith. 

When there is nothing, even hidden depths require light to pass the barriers. 

Evolution invites growing creativity to elevate others. 

One remaining truth is that the pursuit of a noble ambition is a sure sign of success. Appreciating that you can acquire the blessings that sustain life means understanding yourself too. 

This side of realism must claim its role, one of humbling success and genuine efforts toward merit.

Realized stations are eternal inspirations that inspire acceptance of the forthcoming good. 

A HABIT OF ACCURACY & NECESSITY.

Character exhibits a measure in the mind of the mind. The pulse rhythm of habit induces dire threats, and without forming profound ideals in the necessity of existence. 

A good character requires discipline, and no lasting enjoyment is conceivable without remembering the value invested in the minor things.

Work allows for realization and a clear mandate to find fulfillment, showing promise, mastery, and avoidance of middling efforts.

All forms of work serve to clarify, enabling the seekers to sift, what sparks fruitful discipline.

Ask yourself, “Why is this relative to my work? What can I do to cultivate the habit that will lead to success?” 

For success operates more than personal will; it is about intent that enables journey.

Therefore, plan and concentrate thought as its essence.
The text extracted from the image is as follows:

---

DANTE.

BY CHARLES L. LANDON.

FOR PARENTS.

Don’t think that if your child practices, for people to hear, that he is making any real progress in music. People might flatter him to his heart’s content; but let him not be misled into false ideas of his musical progress. 

Don’t consider piano practice too much work related to the child’s health. Much more effort is often done at a task. 

Don’t put off the study of music till the school day is over. It is a wholesome law, for the child to learn how carefully, and in the state this makes, he should do his work in the necessary periods. 

Don’t expect that the teacher can do everything relating to a child’s musical education. The parent must see that there is a regular system of interruptions, practice, and this is no small matter. 

Don’t be afraid to let the teacher know that you appreciate his efforts. When he hears this work is helping, he will respond favorably.

Don’t think, regardless of your article, that parents have to do a little, unless they’re of the class who have confidence in their children. 

Don’t allow others to incite the family to be in a room where there is much joy, for the teachers are real and would cause mazes comparable to the public. 

Don’t expect a child to like practice as much as you might do. It is not a condition that is of real use. 

Don't ask a friend to play for you and as soon as he is sure of condescension, push him first on your studio. Such kindness could hinder his progress.

Don’t put off studying music unless you are on a musical course. You cannot even look at it mechanically. 

Don’t waste your time, friends and money on skill-offered music numbers. The best is to seek good faculty. 

Don’t propose to give up anything while as practiced, as this can show violins improperly. 

Don’t put off the reading of your music every day, as elegant provided music from the Mentor list, and other examples, is the cheap and superior method to enhance the exercises for this music. 

Don’t neglect an opportunity for hearing fine music elsewhere. 

Don’t forget to appreciate the style of playing as it is true. It is one of the masterly faculties that all music has in rewarding truly good progress. 

Don’t allow your parents and friends to be dishonored. You should find the honest places for good use, even if you sense they may find that might be regarded wrongly. 

Don’t mix your mind with a situation, or perfectly try to study your practice. It will add and be necessary.

…

---

The rest of the text continues with titles like "ABOUT THE LESS-TALENTED PUPILS" and "HOW TO STUDY MORE," discussing guidelines for teachers and tips for students and parents in music education. If you need more specific sections transcribed or further detail, please let me know!
I can't extract the text directly from the image. However, I can describe the content for you.

The page appears to be from a publication called "The Etude," featuring a column on various topics related to music education. It discusses addressing the challenges of teaching and reviewing music, the importance of thorough preparation by teachers, and the value of individual practice for students. There are testimonials that commend the quality of materials provided, and the text touches on methods for improving music instruction.

If you need more specific information or a summary, please let me know!
388  
THE ETUDE

PUBLISHER'S NOTES.  
Bartow, holiday presents are offered at low prices in our Premium List.  

Readers to note that The Etude means, please look for the announcement of the new program, and not just to have been our pages the past year.  

We are sorry to disturb those people who are prompt at giving us the aid we ask in our addresses.  

Publishers wishing to write the new initials of the same as Mrs. Ada S. Smith, or Mrs. E. Smith, are informed that such initials trouble these to be.  

Musical people feel particularly pleased to receive musical premiums from a friend. Every good look at our personal goal and those offered are such as we all feel very personal.

Letters without answers are received during few periods in productions of The Etude, from mailing and sending to pass the world’s work. We will be most pleased to have a notice feel that if you know a friend, please do not send these along and we will accept copies.  

None of it will be of such as you may have discouraged. Be sure to ask, please; and these you will send by consultation. Returning the magazines would still be considered, and we apologize for those refusing. Then maximum sense of one book could also act as a great aid. Please give your names and addresses.

The extensive circulation of The Etude has been due to an intrinsic value of recommendation that has made here for the while, along the situation of musical friends in its value. Appreciating these kind of fine and remarkable sentiments that yield from safe and absolute premium help, we thank our friends. Please see Premium pages and show to your musical friends.

We offer a great bond to say we are making a plan. It was sure good, looks in well as now, but a very little more. We will ask this and much about the plot of our work for the rapidly increasing about our musical publication. The page is new and access seems outer, and thoroughly reliable. Has a good section and noted, and distinctly.  

HAVE YOU READ "How to Understand Music"? By W. S. B. Matthews? Every teacher and scholar should do. Music teachers can do no better nor more interesting work than to give a series of forms to its music all on the last part of Volume I. By this instruction people will be prepared to play with expression and intellectually as well as mechanically.

Vol. II of "Tools and Teaching" is now in the course of preparation. It will be hard for you to imagine. It is impossible for a teacher willing to help and work hard for ability; this will receive a surprise that you understand.

We shall also create a large amount of different musical papers to write, while you will find this a nice family of criticism or to teach.

Every effort is made to have the dreary before the rise of January a volume of Chopin's complete writings.  

Do you want to emphasize and clinch some points with a pupil? Point it to The Etude. Bring the facts about and include them in a paper for it. There are several easy music theory courses listed.  

It has been noted. Many teachers insist on teaching new and more complex facts to children. They are assumed less musical and more proficient pieces.  

We are about to commence the publication of a very net instrument, to its renewing of the teaching forms for the places needing instruction in the form of books.  

There are several spheres to introduce in each direction, all we wish to educate or exhibit in aesthetic utility, as there is much that can be used to follow arise as the teacher’s experiences.

There are books in grades in preparation, each book containing about thirty pages, providing one music and the student’s book accordingly arranged. The sessions are not carefully figured and managed. As for this publication, it can reform a highly second rate course every individual to write and you will appreciate it.  

It has been ordered with the particulars of the books and effectively provided.  

The nature of the material has received an immense number of the most eminent teachers and is sure likely to come and deliver.  

Further, we follow on with 25 cards for your future note writing with advances for one.

READ ORGANS can be ordered from this office. We have made arrangements with the best roots to be as much as the Campbell. Any number of arranged normal students will be worked by teachers for any aim of the benefit.

The schedule request increase of some inferior and new music of no observational use produces more a tendency to decline into rehearsal and seems on account of the benefit.

No personal age when the cash reduction is too small to keep off for you, and if you like, "Cash Premiums" you are not entitled to our budget for following.

I have been using the Five-Finger Exercises for over a year, and can fully appreciate what it is and have been sending results of it in my work. It shows something in every way I have expected it to be—helpful and informative.  

We are looking now that what is well regarded for procedure is safe understanding for drill.  
Windsor House, Hampton, N.W., London, Eng.
PREMIUM LIST.

We are now making more favorable offers than ever before. The variety of premiums is large enough to meet the wants of all. We have especially endeavored to offer premiums suitable for Christmas and birthday presents.

NOTICE!

That everything in this list is also offered for sale. Full particulars, including prices, postage, express charges, etc., are given with each article. Large and heavy articles sent by express at the cost of purchaser or receiver at destination.

HOW TO SECURE SUBSCRIBERS TO "THE ETUDE." We learn from those who have gotten up lists of subscribers that it is neither difficult nor exhausting in securing a list; in fact, our large subscription list is due to the worth of THE ETUDE magazine. The copy of it, the inches of a manuscript, proves will look for itself. Hence, let's have a copy with a proposed subscriber for a day or two, for the inspection will add attention to the prospect, found on another page, where its features are described. Send for a few sample copies for this purpose. You can, of course, be several persons at the same time by not leaving it at any one place more than a few days. Subscription can begin with any number back to the beginning of the year.

Subscribers should be told that when you like, we will keep your account, so you can select a premium when you have finished your solicitation. Money to be sent with each order, of course.

A WORD TO OUR READERS. Every article offered has been personally inspected, and in describing them we have been exact. Before they are advertised. Our readers can rest assured the goods in perfect confidence. As premiums we make especially liberal offers, and in many instances even below publishers' and manufacturers' prices. In every instance great value for the money is offered. Please show our desirable list of Holiday goods to your friends.

LIBERAL CASH PREMIUMS.
The Subscriptions, etc. - $1.50
Books, etc. - $1.50
Sheet Music - $1.00
Pamphlets - $1.00
Posters - $1.00

WHAT THE PREMIUMS ARE FOR.
We Offer Premiums to those patrons for their trouble.

NO PREMIUM GIVEN FOR ONE SUBSCRIPTION.

Those who wish to send pupils will find a large list of valuable offerings from the music industry, including the following lists of music for beginners.

MUSICAL LITERATURE PREMIUMS.
Music Life and How to Succeed in it, By J. Thomas.
1. Given for first subscription. Price, $1.
2. Good both practically and as a matter of teaching, as noted by William Steinway, the teacher.
3. Given for the future student or patron. 
4. This book has the music strictly practical and useful.

Manuscript Music, Price, $1.
1. Given for one subscription for three months.
2. This book contains a variety of pieces for early study.
3. Contains music arranged for songs of dance.

How to Understand Music, by W. S. B. Limerick.
1. Given for one subscription, price, $1.50.

Dictionary of Music, by W. S. B. Matthews.
Compile and serve as a practical reference.

LIBERAL OFFER OF MUSICAL WORKS.
If you need more help with your music study, we are pleased to contribute as outlined, that's our promise to you as your choice of selections. 

Three Dollar Worth of Sheet Music to be sent for subscriptions as per terms laid out.

THE PUPIL'S SPECIAL OFFER includes instructions to pupils. 

Music books from this catalogue are all printed and guided to assist instructors.
THE ETUDE.

Premiums may be selected from the above catalog.

*Prices are subject to change.

Send for these catalogs, and we will give you the best opportunity to try out and see what gives you the most interest. 

Tradition and Pleasure Combined.

ALLEGRO, a pedal piano-playing by H. W.  -  -  -  -  . 

This page contains offers, of which the different instruments include various music items like books and other musical tools. The first item is a unique instrument that could be easily moved, incorporating applicable levels of sound and music education.

Classical pieces mentioned provide for four levels of adaptation for students ranging from beginner to advanced alike.

MUSIC STAND, adjustable, described as “a must have for every serious player,” features two adjustable arms and a complete metal build.

ELEGANT, DURABLE AND COMFORTABLE, offers the option of various colors to fit individual tastes.

A robust CABINET, titled with decorations and precise woodwork detailing to suit your music space and aid in organizing your instruments.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENT PREMIUMS.

The "Davenport" Mandolin, a figure named for its unique design.

Other instrumental pieces are suitable for various musical styles including guitars and lutes.

The "Newport" Guitar, noted for its rich creativity, is priced to entice players of all skill levels.

Items depicted are shown clearly:

1. A wind instrument resembling a flute.
2. A slender ukulele-like structure.
3. A larger guitar model.
4. A mandolin of distinctive shape.
5. Two styled lamp designs, one tall and the other short with elaborate bases.

PITTSBURG BANQUET OF LIBRARY, describes elegant seating arrangements enriched with musical ambiance, showing the height of craftsmanship in modern music gatherings. 

This collection emphasizes both instrument quality and attractive design for all musical enthusiasts.
THE ETUDE  
241  

SPECIAL ART PRESSURES  
These are offered for the double of music rooms, as accessories to the lessons that are given to furnish a happy atmosphere.  

ELEGANT BROOKS STATUETTES, for cabinets, musical boxes, consoles, mantelpieces, stands, etc. Equality for presentation.  

MOZART  
A statuette in bronze. Size, 5 inches high; base is blackstone. Green for natural finish with $15.00. Price $9.00, sent by express.  

HAYDN  
In bronze. Size, 5 inches high; base is blackstone. Price for five subscriptions $9.00. Desirable for presentation.  

MENUET  
In bronze. Size, 5 inches high; base is blackstone. Price for five subscriptions $9.00. An elegant present for music pupils.  

CAMERAS  
The publisher of The Etude has investigated the best camera on the market. Find below the following specifications on it:  

THE CAMERA CAMERA  
And Carrying Case. Easy to work. Double Plate Holders. Can be used with the following sizes: 2 1/4 x 4 1/4, 3 1/4 x 4 1/4. G. Derivative and Focusing Sliding. E. H. Difficulty, simple. Interest Certificate. Outfit included with price; the camera is a present and while the value varies as to its finishing in conditions, the outfit is a complete set with everything one needs to start.  

EDUCATIONAL CAMERAS  
The Brooks School Outfit makes a valuable present in the broadest sense of the word “valuable.”  

We Also Offer the Famous Kodak, No. 1,  
which is a round picture 2x3 inches in diameter,  
straightened compact, and reliable. It gives  
an effective expression of the photograph,  
as in an original Kodak. We have many  
photographic instruments, both the commercial  
and amateur lines. Send for  
Kodak Literature, beautifully illustrated.  

MATCH BOX  
Height 4 inches. Antique brass or polished silver. Give for those antiquities.  

MATCH BOX  
Height 6 inches. Antique brass or polished silver. Give for those antiquities.  

PAPER KNIVES  
A graceful design. Available for use with the paper lifter for three members. Price for three members is $6.00; single knives can be $1.00.  

THERMOMETERS  
Height 8 inches. Antiglemas.
The image contains a page from "The Etude," showcasing various advertisements and offers. It features sections about books, gift editions, and a very liberal offer for subscriptions and publications. 

Key textual elements include:

1. **Elegant Gift Editions**: This section describes embossed leather editions of various books, including works by Shakespeare and historical works. 
2. **A Fine Library**: It mentions several popular titles and suggests the purchase of specific illustrated works.
3. **A High Desirable Offer**: This part promotes a series of books known as the "Bells Series" and highlights its value relative to price.
4. **A Very Liberal and Desirable Offer**: This section details a promotional offer for subscribing to a certain number of illustrated publications.
5. **Periodical Listings**: The page includes a list of periodicals along with their subscription prices.

The page uses various fonts and has some decorative elements, providing a layout typical of early 20th-century publications. 

The image also features a depiction of a young woman, elegantly dressed in what appears to be late 19th or early 20th-century fashion, indicating the period's style. The layout is structured, with headings and subheadings that separate different ads and offers clearly.
The text from the image reads:

THE ETUDE

ANNOUNCEMENT FOR 1892

THE ETUDE

ESTABLISHED IN 1883.

AN EDUCATIONAL JOURNAL OF MUSIC. Single Copies, 15 Cents; Subscription, $1.50 per Year.

A Word to Our Subscribers:

IT IS THE LEADING EDUCATIONAL MUSICAL MAGAZINE, AND HAS WON SUCCESS ON ITS OWN MERITS AND IN A FIELD PECULIARLY ITS OWN. It has been, from the initial number, so educating a body of the school and music teacher, and conducted an ambitious grandeur, and to justify those who are from the essential direction of our country, I really only prize the range of subjects that are connected directly with the studies and arrangements needed. It is universally helpful that the duty appointed and performed is not an easy one; and I ask for material assistance in one phase of this worthy enterprise. The magazine of creativity is fantastic but a permanency is assured, as there is a large demand for both personal and performance, or the leading of the instructor, or furthering of personal or business interest. The ETUDE is edited solely by the interests of its readers. Now it starts a large and growing interest in both the general musical public. Its intrinsic worth has been its only claim to patronage.

There is a new Department and special departments for the posting of announcements related to other musical fields, particularly regarding American teachers and musicians and by the whole writer’s Europe. In both the beliefs upon the musical varieties of the form into which ETUDE can offer must be some very certain features for article especially for THE ETUDE. The portion of this staff will receive more than ONE HUNDRED contributors. Charles W. Landis will have the Editorial Department. Contributions can be sent directly to the editor. Mr. W. S. Matthews will continue to conduct his “Practicing Teacher” for teachers, which has proved so interesting. The members of the Editorial Staff include those who are able to help and instruct in “Letters to Pupils,” The Valuable “Questions and Answers” Department will be conducted, as in the past, by the worthy of instruction and number of specialists. The critically “Musical Term,” mention will be made of the principal musical events.

Please see our new and very liberal Cash Reductions. Get your pupils and friends to subscribe.

PARTIAL LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS:

THE FOLLOWING PERSONS HAVE CONTRIBUTED ORIGINAL ARTICLES TO "THE ETUDE."

W. E. Anderson, W. H. Avery, Mrs. C. A. Baernschmidt, C. L. Barnard, J. H. Bartholomew, M. Barrett, M. F. Boller, Mrs. R. B. Brown, A. Butler, A. W. Chester, H. D. Cummings, G. H. Curtis, E. L. Dodge, W. D. Edmonds, L. E. Heller, M. H. Huber, J. M. Jones, W. H. Lentz, H. C. Marks, L. L. March, A. S. McCarthy, L. V. Morton, H. M. Nelson, G. A. Peters, G. E. Perkins, A. Potter, A. J. Prue, Mrs. R. Prestidge, R. C. Rinfret, G. H. Smith, L. S. Soper, H. J. Thomas, F. W. Thompson, J. M. Wiggins, R. G. Wilcox, L. J. Wilson.

Reputable Names, These authors cannot afford too much praise for the work of "THE ETUDE."

George S. Wright, George W. Wright, W. S. Worrall, H. W. Woodbury, M. A. Young, R. L. Youngs.

William L. Smith, as well as several others, have been added. 

It includes contributions from those who are recognized and would appreciate any more time that they might be willing to share, and we shall look for their subscription.
INDEX

Archaeological Talisman - M. Webster ........... 783  
A History of Singing - H. J. Smith ............ 784  
A Guide to Ornamental Music - A. B. Brown .. 785  
A Guide to Temple Music - J. E. Goldstein ... 786  
A Review of Musical Forms - G. W. Miller ... 787  

Leading Roadway of the Valley of the ........ 788  
Love’s Reappearance - M. H. Thomas .......... 789  
Matched - Frances E. Willard ................. 790  

Lesson Plans for the New Year - S. A. Hill ... 791  
My Favorite Songbook - F. C. Morgan......... 792  
Name That Song - A. R. Sterling................ 793  

Notes Department ....................................... 794  
Problems of Modern Education - J. W. Smith 795  
The Teaching of English in High School .... 796  
Theories of Teaching - R. H. Williams ........ 797  

Objective Study - Henry D. Williams .......... 798  
Place of Music in the - Edward H. Thiel .... 799  
Piano Problems - L. F. Wright .................... 800  

Group Solo Playing - Charles W. Linton ...... 801  
Teaching for Meaning - Alice A. Hurst ....... 802  
How to Anchor a Symphonic Touch ............. 803  

Have Your Own Music Teaching - H. A. Tindal 804  
Essentials of Vocal Music - William H. Ryder.. 805  
Give Your Music Students to Teaching - G. W. Larson 806  

Worthy of Comment ..................................... 807  
Articles Discussing Music ............................ 808  

MUSIC INDEX  
Standard Works of Research ........................ 809  
Choral Publishing - M. W. K. .......................... 810  
How to Plan a Children's Program .............. 811  

Editorial Notes ............................................... 812  
Another set of Students in Music ................. 813  