Gardner-Webb University
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University

The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957                             John R. Dover Memorial Library

10-1954

Volume 72, Number 10 (October 1954)

Guy McCoy


Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude
Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Fine Arts Commons, History Commons, Liturgy and Worship Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons

Recommended Citation
McCoy, Guy (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 72, No. 10. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, October 1954. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/102

This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.

Non-textual image description:
A small circular, multicolored icon appears to the left of the phrase "Part of the". The icon consists of a blue circular outer ring with a white inner circle; within the white area there are three overlapping, curved shapes in red, yellow, and blue that form a roughly triangular swirl or pinwheel. The icon resembles a stylized, colorful repository or commons logo.
ETUDE
the music magazine

OCTOBER 1954
50 CENTS

PIANO • ORGAN • VIOLIN • VOICE • BAND • RECORDS • HI-FI

In this Issue...

The Call to Teach
Bernard Kirshbaum

The Dance Art
Develops a Notation
Nadia Chilkovsky

How to Write
Good Tunes
Arthur Schwartz

Results Count
James Francis Cooke

The Ernest Bloch Sonata
Harold Berkley

Is There An
"Italian" Method?
Fedora Barbieri

Present Aims and
Objectives in
Choral Music
George Howerton

The Story of MTNA
S. Turner Jones

Fascinating Ensemble
of Flute and Organ
Laurence Taylor

LISZT TREASURES IN WASHINGTON
by Edward N. Waters
(See Page 9)

Non-textual image description:
A large black-and-white photographic portrait occupies most of the cover. It shows an elderly man with long white hair and a solemn expression, seated in an ornate wooden chair with a carved armrest. He wears a dark, double-breasted coat and rests one hand on the armrest and the other on his knee. Heavy drapery or a dark curtain forms the backdrop behind him. The photograph is framed on the right by the white column listing the magazine contents.
Presser pre-publication offer

Order Now to take advantage of low advance of publication prices. Orders are limited to two copies per book. Please send remittance (check or money order) with your order. Postpaid delivery will be made as each book comes off the press.

PIANO SOLOS

HIGHLIGHTS OF FAMILIAR MUSIC arranged by Denes Agay

A collection of seventy-five of the most familiar melodies arranged by Denes Agay for the student of limited technical ability. Also ideal as supplementary material for students. Original harmonizations have been faithfully retained. Contents include "Folk Tunes From Other Lands," "Dance," "Sacred Songs," "Themes From Standard Literature," etc. In the case of songs, words accompany the music.
List Price $1.25 Advance of Publication $.80

FOLK-WAYS, U.S.A., Book II Elsie Siegmeister

Contains twenty-seven titles; all music based on American folk tunes. Many have verses. Grade 2 1/2. Each piece is tastefully harmonized and has a more descriptive title. Contents include both familiar and unfamiliar melodies and are therefore desirable as supplementary material for the teaching of musical expression.
List Price $1.00 Advance of Publication $.65

CHRISTMAS IN THE SOUTH arranged by Marie Westerwalt Illustrations by Jane Flory

A group of Southern folk carols and Christmas customs. This new publication follows the lines of the successful "Christmas in Mexico." Full justice has been done to the subject in the treatment. Grade 2 1/2.
List Price $1.25 Advance of Publication $.85

COMMAND OF THE KEYBOARD (Volumes I and II in manuscript) Edited and compiled by Alfred Miroush

The material for this series has been carefully selected to help foster the development of keyboard technique. Included are all the regular elements used in technical training such as scales and arpeggios, double notes, trills, cadenzas, octaves, etc., as well as many new exercises for the independent development of both hands. VOL. I covers the period from elementary to early intermediate; VOL. II continues and amplifies the principles of VOL. I and is designed for what is often confused as 'advanced' or 'concert' work.
List Price $1.50 each Advance of Publication $.95 each

TUNES FOR TEENS by Rufus Wheeler and Elsie Siegmeister

Three-part songs for girls' and boys' voices in a book by Mr. Wheeler and Mr. Siegmeister have resulted in a charming collection of folk and original tunes suited to the adolescent voice. The songs are simple, melodic and are given attractive accompaniments which make them valuable for classroom as well as for choral use.
List Price $1.00 Advance of Publication $.65

THEODORE PRESSER COMPANY
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania

PIANORAMA OF AMERICAN CLASSICS compiled, arranged and edited by Denes Agay

An unusual compilation which gives a perspective of stylistic elements during the 18th and 19th centuries. Twenty-three titles are included by American composers, including Foster, Beecham, Gottschalk, Paine, Huneker, Horatio Parker, Edward MacDowell, Victor Herbert, Arthur Foote and many others. A most valuable series of concert and classroom pieces for intermediate and advanced students. Also suitable as a collection of supplementary material for the teacher.
List Price $1.50 Advance of Publication $.95

AMERICAN HERITAGE arranged by Marie Westerwalt Illustrations by Jane Flory

A folk festival of songs and dances. Marie Westerwalt and Jane Flory have brought together the songs and dances of many peoples who have helped to make America, and have made a vital contribution to our folk music collection.
List Price $1.25 Advance of Publication $.85

ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER A story with music by Marie Westerwalt and Jane Flory

A charming fairy tale set to music by Marie Westerwalt with words and illustrations by Jane Flory. We are certain that teachers and pupils will welcome this addition to our catalog. Grade 2 1/2
List Price $1.25 Advance of Publication $.85

ONE PIANO, FOUR HANDS

DUETS OF THE CLASSICAL PERIOD edited by Douglas Townsend

This edition presents four-hand music of the period of Mozart and Haydn and will be welcomed by the teacher who is in search of unexacting duet music. Moderate difficulty.
List Price $1.75 Advance of Publication $1.30

CHORAL

WHY THE CHIMES RANG by James Ashe Crawford Set to text by Raymond Macdonald Alden

This unusual story of a little boy at Christmas time is set for mixed voices with orchestral accompaniment or piano. It includes interesting choral material plus solos and recitatives which will be especially effective in school and church programs. A most useful Christmas program number for mixed chorus.
List Price $3.50 Advance of Publication $2.35

(Additional small type listings and prices for other Presser publications appear in the columns but are not fully legible in the image.)

Right page — full-page advertisement

At top, a ribbon banner reading:
100 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP IN MUSIC

Large photo/illustration: a French Provincial console piano with matching padded bench in an interior setting. To the left of the piano is a tall decorative vase on a stand; a framed painting or wall decoration hangs above and behind the piano. A round medallion sealing the centennial is shown near the piano's lower left.

Main headline:
A piano you'll live with proudly... for a lifetime

Body copy:
This lovely French Provincial console was created especially to commemorate Mason & Hamlin's 100th year. In your studio or home, its grand-like tone and performance will be a source of great musical pleasure and pride. Like all Mason & Hamlin pianos, it is ageless in beauty, unequalled in tone, a wise investment worthy of your consideration.

Signature / slogan:
The World's Finest Piano

Mason & Hamlin
DIVISION OF AEOLIAN AMERICAN CORPORATION East Rochester, N. Y.

At bottom left: ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954
At bottom right: 1

Description of non-textual images:
Left page: no prominent photographic images; the page is primarily typographic, with headings and section dividers.

Right page: a large, detailed black-and-white photograph of a French Provincial style console piano with cabriole legs and carved details, shown with a matching cushioned bench. A tall ornate vase on a stand is positioned to the left of the piano. A framed painting or wall decoration is visible on the wall behind and above the piano. A circular commemorative medallion or seal, indicating the centennial, appears near the lower left of the piano image. A ribbon banner at the top proclaims "100 Years of Leadership in Music."
I can do that, but the image you provided is fairly small for the dense, small-print magazine pages and many lines are not readable at this resolution. To ensure I capture all text accurately (including small type and footnotes), please either upload a higher-resolution scan or provide separate close-up crops of each column/page.

Meanwhile, here is an accurate description of the non-textual images on the pages and what I can read clearly at this resolution:

Non-textual images (detailed descriptions)
- Top left (GULBRANSEN ad): A black-and-white portrait photo of a smiling young woman (bust-length), shown at a slight angle, hair shoulder-length and styled. Below and to the right is a small illustration/photo of a upright console piano (front view). The ad layout uses bold sans-serif headings and a vertical column of text to the right of the portrait.

- Lower-left (RCA ad with trio photo): A small black-and-white photograph of three men seated playing instruments (appears to be a small jazz/ensemble photo). At the very bottom left of that ad is a drawing/photograph of an RCA tape recorder (rectangular machine with reels and controls visible).

- Center, narrow vertical ad (MAAS Rowe Carillons): A tall, narrow vertical advertisement featuring an image of multiple cathedral bells suspended in an overhead belfry (dark silhouettes of bells) and a small drawing of a carillon keyboard console at bottom of the ad.

- Lower center (PIANOTIME favorite ad): A small illustration of a songbook or sheet music cover with a ribbon/banner and a stylized treble clef or similar piano-related artwork.

- Right page, top-right corner (Connsonata ad portrait): A small black-and-white portrait photograph of a woman (head and shoulders) gazing slightly up/away, set inside a square or rounded box as part of the ad.

- Right page, large Connsonata organ image: A large clear black-and-white photo of an upright electronic organ (console) showing the keyboard manuals, stops/control panels above, and a visible pedalboard below. The organ is shown from the front-right angle. Underneath the organ photo the model is identified as "MODEL 2D" (visible at base of photo).

- Right page, lower-right of Connsonata ad: A small line drawing of a Connsonata console showing perspective and labeled "MODEL 2EA" or similar; and a small booklet illustration (depiction of a pamphlet or mail-order card) showing a form to "WRITE for your copy of the FREE GUIDE, 'HOW TO CHOOSE AN ORGAN'..." with an area for name, address, city, zone, state, and checkboxes for "Organist Music Teacher Director Student."

If you want the full text transcription of both pages (every headline, article, ad copy, captions, contents list, small-print lines, etc.), please upload a higher-resolution image or crop the pages into separate high-res images (one per column if possible). Once I have a clearer image I will produce a complete, accurate textual extraction.
Musical
Oddities

By NICOLAS SLONIMSKY

ERNEST REYER'S opera "Erostrate" depicted the first publicity seeker who set fire to the temple of Diana for no other purpose than to make his name immortal. But the opera failed by far to measure up to the fame—or infamy—of this scenic Erostratus. When it was produced in Paris in 1871, the final act in which the temple collapses was cut out. Reyer ruefully remarked afterwards that apparently the management believed that the expected collapse of the opera was quite sufficient. At the second performance of "Erostrate" there were fewer people in the audience than on the stage, and Reyer withdrew the opera.

This, however, was not the smallest audience ever to attend an opera production. In March 1851 a revised version of Kurt Atterberg's opera "Härvard's Home-coming" was announced for performance at the Stockholm Royal Opera. Only three people showed up. The performance was canceled.

Brahms said that each symphony is really three works: the one that the composer wrote; the one that the conductor interprets; and the one that the public heard.

Cesar Cui, the least mighty of the Russian Mighty Five, is known to the musical world mainly by his gentle little piece Oriental. He is the son of Anton Cui, Napoleonic soldier who remained in Russia after the disastrous campaign of 1812, married a Lithuanian woman and settled in Vilna as a teacher of French. Despite the sad outcome of Napoleon's ventures, Cui's power was not shaken in his admiration for military heroes. He named his three sons after the great conquerors Napoleon, Alexander, and Caesar.

Music was Cesar Cui's great love; he learned it by copying Chopin's mazurkas on plain paper, ruling it by hand. He studied briefly with the Polish composer Moniuszko when the latter was in Vilna in 1849. Then he went to St. Petersburg, where he entered the Engineering Academy, graduating in military topography. He participated in the Turkish war of 1877, and later taught fortification to the future Czar Nicholas II. Cui outlived four of the Mighty Five, and died in 1918 when his pupil, the Czar, was the prisoner of the revolution.

Although the spirit of the National School of Russian music was wonderfully expressed in the works of the Mighty Five, Cui was an ardent opponent to musical innovation. As a music critic, he began by damning Wagner. He then attacked Richard Strauss. Listening to a quartet by Vincent d'Indy, he observed: "How strange! The quartet sounds well only when the musicians play wrong notes."

In 1911, an old man of eighty-two, Cui published the bitter musical parody, entitled "Hymn to Futurism," and dedicated it to the "innumerable modern super-geniuses." The accompaniment begins with a series of descending fourths and continues with passages of ascending diminished-seventh arpeggios, on C, C-sharp, and D, this forming twelve different notes in each bar. The melody of the "Hymn to Futurism" is also formed by twelve different notes beginning with two consecutive augmented triads on C and on E-sharp, and continuing with a descending whole-tone scale from D-sharp down. Quite a dodecaphonic prophecy!

BRAHMS liked the company of ladies and invariably exercised his acquired Viennese charm with them. Gräff with new compositions, he was exceedingly polite with feminine creative spirits. Mlle. Dobrzanska, a Russian pianist who met him in 1860, sent him her own piano pieces for an opinion. Brahms wrote to her: "I am returning your music to you with my corrections. I have deliberately left several errors uncorrected so that the public will be in no doubt that these schöne Noten are the product of a feminine pen. Working on your manuscripts, I thought of you and of the wonderful summer we spent in Baden-Baden. Now I understand why I do not like my present habitation. There is not enough green foliage here, and no villa where I can come to visit you. All this is missing, and I cannot be fröhlich. But I am used to deny myself all that is dear to me."

Apparently Mlle. Dobrzanska was a pupil of Raff, for Brahms continued as follows: "The Raff symphonies do not fill me with envy. It is the type of music that only the composer's pupils are apt to admire. Of course, they are forced to listen to it, and I am sorry for you that you have to be subjected to this experience." Brahms then resumed his epistolary grace: "I wish that you could read my German letters half as eagerly as I read your letters in French. I used to look with horror upon the handwriting and I admire the beautiful lettering of your charming missives. Can you believe me when I tell you that I am with you with my whole soul?"

JOHANN GEORG KASTNER was one of the most learned musicians who ever lived. He acquired an enormous amount of knowledge in every field of human endeavor — music, science, philology, philosophy, history and mythology. He wrote long essays on such subjects as "Cosmic Music" or "Musical Paromology of the French Language"; his books were published in beautiful editions on wonderful paper and profusely illustrated with engravings. Each essay was followed by an original musical score. Thus the dissertation "On the Voices of Plants" was printed in the same volume with Les Cris de Paris, a "grand, humorous, vocal and instrumental symphony," in three parts: Morning, Day and Evening. In the Paris morning, the Paris vendors offer their wares; carrots, onions, potatoes, cheese, mackerel, and even shoes of an improved leather. The second movement represents a late sleeper complaining against the "horrible street noise" and he exclaims: "Parsf es! Fender!" In the evening the vendors go home, and Paris is again the city of peace.

This "grand symphony" has some historical significance. It presents the first time when street vendors' cries were used in an orchestral score.

Kastner was a modernist of his day. In the mid-nineteenth century he promoted the then new invention, the saxophone, and wrote a sextet for saxophones. He was interested in the possibilities of scientific music; he wrote numerous papers on acoustics. At the same time he was engaged in practical musical affairs, usually on the grandiose scale. He was one of the organizers of the international competition of military bands at the Paris Exposition of 1834. Nine nations participated, and the gathering comprised seventeen cavalry, twenty-two infantry corps, and many military choruses. The number of horses was about three thousand.

Kastner was even capable of lighthearted experiments. He once lighted a scene called Le Ballon and published a "grande parade" for a porteurs' event. He also wrote cantatas, many of which were ever performed. When he died in 1835, his family commissioned a German writer Hermann L... to write his biography. It was large and worthy of Kastner's own huge undertakings. The biography was published in three volumes, 1200 pages in all.

The name of Robert Eitner stands in musicology as a monument of erudition. In his Quell-lexikon, on which he worked for thirty years, he listed thousands of published and unpublished musical works. But even the greatest scholar would be apt to commit blunders, and Eitner was no exception. He did not know much French. When he found the Paris edition of the song La Chanson de L'Auberge (Isolde? 'Song of the Isolated Inn') he decided that it related to an inn and to the life of the composer; he accordingly translated the title L'AUBERGE, ISOLÉE, lived at and of the 18th Century.

There is another strange French composer in Eitner's Lexicon: one Udhay Berger, who according to Eitner "seems to have lived in the 16th century." One glance at his name is sufficient to show that it is two words: "Un Gay" or "Ung gai," and by a misprint for Berger, Ungay Berger is not a composer, but a scrambled version of Un gai berger (a gay shepherd), which is an old French song. THE END

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

(End of article page; small footers and page number not fully distinct)

[Right-hand page: advertisement]

The music that makes you rich for life

You will long remember the day a Hammond Organ comes into your home. For it marks the start of a fuller, more rewarding life. There's more to it than the joy of playing beautiful music. Or the satisfaction of seeing your children's interest in music grow. Or the way a Hammond Organ helps you to relax.

There's the deep sense of achievement. The happiness of pleasures shared with those you love. The awareness of firmer family ties. All this for all the days of your life!

The Hammond Organ is the easiest of all keyboard instruments to learn. Even if you've had little or no music training, you'll play surprisingly well in less than a month. Thousands have told us so.

Best of all, a Hammond Organ is easy to buy. Prices begin at $975 f.o.b. Chicago, for the Hammond Chord Organ, not shown. Easy terms, often up to three years. And, a Hammond takes no more space than the average desk. Visit your dealer for a free demonstration. Or mail coupon today!

Now! Earlybird Christmas Layaway Plan

You're sure of a Hammond under the tree this Christmas morning if you join this easy plan now. It's convenient, and a blessing to your budget. See your Hammond Organ dealer soon for details of his Earlybird Christmas Layaway Plan.

Hammond Organ
MUSIC'S MOST GLORIOUS VOICE

Hammond Spinet Organ (small photograph of the organ, caption reads "Hammond Spinet Organ")

$975 f.o.b. Chicago, for the Hammond Chord Organ, not shown. Easy terms, often up to three years. And, a Hammond takes no more space than the average desk. Visit your dealer for a free demonstration. Or mail coupon today!

Hammond Organ Company, 425 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 6, Illinois.
Without obligation, send information on the following Hammond Organ shown:
Spinet [ ] Home [ ] Church [ ] Concert [ ] (checkboxes)

Name ______________________________________
Address ____________________________________
City ___________________ Zone ____ State ______ Phone ______________

(Dealer's name and address space)

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954
Page 5

Description of non-textual images:
- Large photograph (right page, top) shows a woman seated at a Hammond electronic organ, viewed from an elevated rear-left angle. The woman is playing the organ; sheet music is on the music rack. She wears a light-colored blouse and a dark skirt, and sits on a bench. To her right and in the background a man in a suit stands leaning casually against an ornate wrought-iron decorative screen; he is watching the organist and holds a pipe or cigarette near his mouth. The organ console shows multiple manuals (keyboards) and drawbars/controls; the scene is staged in an airy, well-lit setting.
- Small product photograph (right page, lower left) shows a Hammond Spinet Organ, a compact upright keyboard instrument with a modest music rack and short tapered legs; caption beneath it reads "Hammond Spinet Organ."
Teachers!

A SHORT CUT TO SCALE PLAYING

With the Slide Rule Your Pupils Can Learn Scales the Easy Way

Vision directs the right fingers to the right keys. The Arrows point out the keys to play, the Finger Pattern Shows where the fingers to use. A new way of teaching; a new way of learning. For use with both standard and modern fingering.

Slide Rule complete in envelope.
Instruction book
shown above.

$1.50

Slide Rule fits in case with instruction book.

Saves the Teacher's Time and the Pupil's Time

The scale pattern is presented in such a graphic manner that the pupil sees instantly where to place his fingers. He learns RIGHT THE FIRST TIME. This countless hours need not be spent in practice to overcome faulty habits.

For Both Standard and Modern Fingering

Two systems of fingering are included, the Standard Fingering and a newer one called "Modern Fingering," which is preferred by many artists and teachers. The Slide Rule may be used with either, and complete directions for using the Rule with both fingerings are given.

ORDER FROM YOUR DEALER OR PUBLISHER

JENKINS MUSIC COMPANY
1217-23 Walnut Street Kansas City 13, Missouri

Teach correct timing early

(with an illustration of a young man seated at a piano and a tall metronome on the floor)

with METRONOME de Maelzel
by SETH THOMAS

No one realizes better than you how important is the early development of good sense of timing. It is this feeling which helps to establish correct habits for turning out high grade music students.

The SETH THOMAS Metronome de Maelzel is a handsome instrument, richly finished and built for long wear. It is easily adjustable for tempos from 40 to 208 beats a minute. Enclosed in a handsome mahogany case, its sturdy mechanism is carefully made and carefully adjusted.

Ask your dealer to show you this fine metronome. Only $13.50*

Seth Thomas Clocks
Thomaston, Conn.
Div. of General Time Corp.

(Trademark emblem: GT TIME)

6

Music Lover's
BOOKSHELF
By DALE ANDERSON

Music in the Renaissance
by Gustave Reese

It is an injustice to the author of this important 1022 page book representing the well-digested results of enormous research in that mystic period in Europe from about 1360 to 1640, more or less loosely referred to as the Renaissance, to present this short and meagre review. The book review space in the ETUDE, however, is restricted, and your reviewer would require several pages merely to outline the contents of Dr. Reese's monumental contribution to musicology. It is a work for advanced students and research musicians.

From the music of Dufay to that of the end of the Tudor Age, the art was influenced by folk melodies, the court, the church and the dance as well as the contemporary theoreis. Dr. Reese notes at the end of his last chapter: "It has been asked whether the extreme advance of the Tudor age was a musical one. That everyone sang and played a musical instrument. One need only look at the concerts and festivities of Renaissance Italy, France and Spain to find similar outbursts of musical activity of that earlier date." However, he proceeds to show that the English the- same writers may, the English the- are we musical parly because the audience was more or less intimately literate. If actors were singers, instrumentalists, and dancers, it was because the better class of the spectator was himself of the same things or wished to be. The musical accomplishment of many Elizabethan actors may also be due, in part, to the break-up of the monasteries under Henry VIII, which forced singing boys and men, well trained in music, into the employment of the theatre.

The serious significance of the work is indicated by the fact that the book has been documented by 52 pages of bibliographical references.

W. W. Norton and Co., Inc. $15.00

Singing for Amateurs
by Richard M. Groves

In his book, Richard Case is concerned with the health and training of the voice for those not intend- ing to become professional singers. The author gives lectures and practical exercises for tone production and respiration. The book is planned for intelligent laymen and teachers who want to know how to get better results. The style is simple and practical and the advice offered is sane and sound. Musical examples are given. Oxford University Press $2.00

(END)

WORLD OF MUSIC
(Continued from Page 3)

The home will be on view. Gardiner C. Greene, president of Browning Laboratories, Worcester, Mass., is president of the non-profit corporation promoting the 5-day show.

Joseph Fuchs, internationally noted violinist, has been appointed visiting professor of violin on the faculty of the music division of Boston University's school of fine and applied arts. Professor Fuchs will direct a major series of violin studies which will meet for two days' sessions at intervals throughout the school year. He is widely recognized as one of the leading violinists in the country and was associated with Pablo Casals in the Prades Music Festivals in France.

A chamber orchestra to be known as the Hart House Orchestra has been formed by Boyd Neel, Dean of the Royal Conservatory of Music at Toronto, Canada, and conductor of the famed Boyd Neel Orchestra. The orchestra will give concerts and broadcasts in Canada. Mr. Neel is one of the country's foremost conductors and has made many recordings.

Robert Cross, instructor in the music department, has been promoted to assistant professor of music at the University of Michigan, effective September 1. He has been with the University since 1948.

The 8th Annual Mid-West National Band Clinic will be held in Chicago, December 13-15. It is expected to draw a large number of directors, students and music enthusiasts.

Roger Ducrese, French composer formerly in the faculty of the Conservatory of Paris, has been appointed visiting professor of composition at the Juilliard School in New York. He will give a series of master classes during the winter term.

The University of Michigan has appointed John K. Krenz to the faculty as instructor in the music school. He holds degrees from the University of Michigan and Yale University, and has done graduate work at Columbia.

The Milwaukee (Wisconsin) Art Institute will conduct an exhibition of the music collection, September 18 through October 20. Under the title "Of Music and Art," the exhibition will emphasize the close relationship between music and the visual arts in the 18th and 19th centuries. A variety of musical instruments, manuscripts, and rare prints will be shown.

Albani Moses, violinist and teacher, professed to be one of the leading concert artists of his generation. He died in Baltimore on July 30 after a long illness. He made concert tours in Europe and America and was first violinist with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra.

The New York City Opera Company opened its 1954 season on September 29, with Joseph Rosenstock conducting "La Traviata." New appointments for the season include several young artists who will be given principal roles during the season.

The American Academy in Rome again is offering a limited number of fellowships in music. The fellowships are for composers and musicologists and will be awarded on the basis of talent and achievement. Further information may be obtained from the American Academy in Rome, 7 East 67th Street, New York 21.

The Rockefeller Foundation recently announced a three-year grant to the Juilliard School for the support of the research and development of musical education materials for schools. The grant will permit the establishment of experimental programs.

The American Legion Marching Song Contest will be open to all American schools. Closing date December 31. Cash awards of $5000. Write for details: American Legion National Headquarters, Dept. of Education, 700 North Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis 6, Ind.

(Continued on Page 8)

(At small inset near bottom right of center page:) COMPETITIONS (For details, write to sponsor listed)

1. Composition contest: Award of $1000 for a four-part setting for mixed voices of a Mass, without creed, in English. Sponsored by St. Mark's Episcopal Church, Philadelphia. Closing date December 31, 1954. Details from Wesley A. Day, 1625 Locust St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

2. Composition contest: The American Legion Marching Song Contest, cash awards of $5000. Closing date December 31, 1954. Details from: American Legion, Dept. of Education, 700 North Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis 6, Ind.

(Continued on Page 8)

(right page large photograph of a young woman resting her arms on a surface and looking toward the left of the picture)

Photograph description: Head-and-shoulders portrait of a young woman with short curled hair, resting her chin on folded arms atop a surface; she looks to the left with a thoughtful, slightly distant expression. Lighting is soft and emphasizes her facial features; background is plain and light.

It's time someone spoke out
on this question

The machine age is a blessing, as far as it lightens work. But there are signs that automatic living and push-button ease, demanding little of the individual, are giving the individual little in return.

This affects our whole generation.

For resourcefulness is not born, it must be developed. It takes not only play, but work. Not only taking, but giving. Not only watching, but doing.

When families import every hour of entertainment into their homes, they sacrifice values like initiative and self-reliance and the reward of creating something for one's self.

Steinway, taking the initiative, is bringing this message to American parents, teachers and others, through its advertising and promotion programs. The Steinway piano helps children rise above the push-button ease of the machine age by bringing into the home not only the riches of music but the joys of accomplishment too.

Steinway & Sons

7

(Page numbers shown: 6 at bottom left page, 7 at bottom right page)

Notes on non-textual images:
- Top-left ad shows an illustrated "Slide Rule" shaped device with an "Arrows point" graphic and a small image of an instruction book labeled "Slide Rule Book of Scales." A hand-drawn keyboard appears below the text indicating finger positions.
- Lower-left large illustration shows a young man seated at a piano playing; to his right is a tall, triangular, traditional wind-up metronome on the floor. The style is mid-20th-century advertising art in black and white.
- Right-page dominant image is a black-and-white photographic portrait of a young woman resting her arms and chin on a surface and gazing off to the side (described above).
SWISS TYPE
MELODE BELLS
THE MODERN DAY MUSIC SENSATION!

LEARN TO PLAY THESE BELLS IN JUST A FEW MOMENTS BY...

COLOR
NOTES
LETTERS
NUMBERS

FREE!
COLOR MUSIC BOOK WITH BELLS.

$4.98

CHILDREN & GROWN-UPS
6 TO 60

BE THE HIT OF YOUR PARTY
WIN AMATEUR NITE PRIZES
SOLO WITH ORCHESTRAS
PLAY ON RADIO
AND TELEVISION!

THESE VARI-COLORED
SILVERY VOICED BELLS
ARE THE WORLD'S
GREATEST VALUE FOR
FUN AND EDUCATION.

SEE, HEAR . . . AND TRY THEM AT YOUR
NEAREST TOY OR DEPARTMENT STORE

KNICKERBOCKER
NO. HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA

(Small caption on box illustration: Swiss Melode Bells Music)

WORLD OF MUSIC
(Continued from Page 7)

Arcari Foundation: Accordion composition contest. Award of $500 for an original work — a rhapsody for accordion and orchestra. Closing date, October 15, 1954. Details from Arcari Foundation, 14 Merion Road, Merion, Pa.

Queen Elizabeth of Belgium International Musical Competition. 1955 session for violin. Deadline for filing entries January 31, 1955. Details from Queen Elizabeth of Belgium International Music Competition, Palais des Beaux-Arts, 11 rue Baron Horta, Brussels, Belgium.

National Symphony Orchestra Composition Contest for United States composers. Total of $3,000 for original compositions. Entries to be submitted between October 1, 1954, and January 1, 1955. Details from National Symphony Orchestra Association, 2002 P Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Prizes of Harvey Gaul, Inc. Eighth Annual Composition Contest. An award of $300 for a violin solo with piano accompaniment. A $100 award for a composition for four hands. Closing date December 15, 1954. Details from Mrs. David W. Murdoch, Chairman, 5914 Wellesley Avenue, Pittsburgh 6, Pa.

American Guild of Organists. Prize Anthem Contest. $150.00 offered by The H. W. Gray Company, Inc., for the best anthem for mixed voices. Deadline, January 1, 1955. Details from the Philadelphia Committee, American Guild of Organists, 8016 (?) [text uncertain], Philadelphia 7, Pa.

Musical Fund Society of Philadelphia International Composition Contest. $1,000 award for a choral work for mixed voices and orchestra. Closing date December 31, 1954. Details from Mr. William Sunder(?), Chairman, 1025 Walnut Street, Philadelphia 7, Pa.

Broadcast Music, Inc. Student composers Radio Awards. Total prizes, $7,500 (first prize, $2,000). Closing date, Dec. 31, 1954. Details from Russell Sander, director, 560 Fifth Avenue, Fifth Floor, New York 19, New York.

Musical News Items from Abroad

Marcel Dupré, internationally noted organist, has been appointed director of the Paris Conservatory, as successor to the late Claude Delvincourt, who had held the post since 1941. Mr. Dupré is himself a graduate of the Conservatory.

The 1954-55 season of the Staatsoper [text uncertain: possibly Staatsoper in Berlin or Vienna] will open November 1, 1954, and will include performances of a number of standard operatic and symphonic works. [Text here is small and partly obscured.]

Baden-Baden, Germany, will be the scene of the annual [festival?] with the participation of many distinguished artists. The exact program and dates were announced recently. [Some lines unreadable.]

The Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra will open its season under the direction of Ferenc Fricsay. [Some lines uncertain.]

Sir William Walton's music will be featured in forthcoming concerts in England and on the Continent. [Additional details not fully legible.]

The annual meeting of the Mozart Society in Salzburg this year was addressed by the noted musicologist Dr. Paul Nettl [or Nettel?]. He spoke on "Mozart in the U. S. A."

Joseph Keilberth conducted the Vienna Opera performances of Wagner's Ring of the Nibelung with striking success. [Additional details not fully legible.]

The Tours festival in France presented a series of concerts by the English organist Dr. G. D. Cunningham. [Some lines obscured.]

[Final line in this column partly visible:]
THE END

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

Liszt
Treasures
in Washington

It may come as a pleasant surprise
to many to learn that one of the best collections
of Lisztiana in the world is in the
national capital in Washington.

by Edward N. Waters
Assistant Chief, Music Division
Library of Congress

THE PUBLICATION in this issue of
ETUDE (on Page 27) of an almost
totally unknown composition by Franz
Liszt, here printed for the first time, is an
exciting fact. Since the composer's original
manuscript has been in America for years
(above is a facsimile of its opening measures),
the appearance of this score in print
is of unusual interest. Much of the American
public's knowledge of Liszt derives
from the great pianist and teacher whose
career made him one of the most famous
figures of the nineteenth century. Liszt's
association with the national capital and
the fact that many of his autographs are
preserved in American institutions have
added to our opportunities for study.

One of the most extensive holdings of Liszt
manuscripts and letters in the United States
is in the Library of Congress. The Librarian
of Congress has acquired material from
various sources during the years, and many
important items are preserved in the Music
Division. In the 1920's and 1930's several
collections were received which form the
nucleus of the present Liszt holdings. Among
these were the collection of the noted Liszt
pupil Rafael Joseffy, whose superb manuscripts
and letters represent a remarkable
group of Lisztiana.

An important portion of the Liszt materials
came from the famous Hungarian Liszt
Museums and other European sources.
Because of the efforts of American collectors
and the cooperation of foreign institutions,
the Library now possesses a considerable
body of original autograph manuscripts,
letters and other items relating to Liszt's
career.

(Continued on Page 16)

[Footer right page: ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954]

Description of non-textual images:

- Left-page advertisement illustration: A black-and-white cartoon-style drawing of a smiling young man and woman standing behind a wooden box of bells labeled "Swiss Melode Bells." The man (on the left) holds a bell in his right hand near his ear and wears a microphone marked "WCZ". The woman (on the right) also holds a bell and sings, with musical notes drawn around them. In front of them is an open color music book showing lines of musical staff and notation. To the left of the couple is a stylized silhouette bubble containing the words "COLOR NOTES LETTERS NUMBERS". The ad includes a round price tag "$4.98" and a small rectangular logo at the bottom reading "KNICKERBOCKER NO. HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA."

- Right-page photographic images: At the top right, a small black-and-white portrait photograph of Franz Liszt showing his face and long hair, set against a pale background. To the right of the portrait is a photograph or facsimile of Liszt's handwritten musical manuscript showing staff lines and handwritten notes and markings; portions of the notation and some handwritten words are visible but not fully legible in the reproduction.

Note: Some of the smallest text in the lower-left columns is partially obscured or too small to read with complete certainty from this image; where exact wording was unclear, the transcription above preserves the most likely reading but may contain slight uncertainties.
[Left page top: black-and-white photograph of a man seated at a piano, looking toward the camera. Caption beneath the photo: Arthur Schwartz]

How to write good tunes

What is the secret of writing a hit tune?
Are there any rules that guarantee good
results? Read what an expert has to say
about this all-absorbing subject.

From an interview with Arthur Schwartz
Secured by Rose Heylbut

(Arthur Schwartz, composer of hit tunes
and musicals, including the present Broadway
success, By the Beautiful Sea, received citation
last May from New York University and
the University Alumni Federation in honor
of his 25th anniversary as a successful com-
poser—Ed. Note)

CREATIVE ABILITY in music seems
more mysterious than creativity in other
forms. The average man thinks the
writing of tunes far more difficult than
the painting of scenes or the turning out of
stories. When an ambitious youngster be-
gins to spin a melody, the very fact of his
producing a pattern of tones causes his
family and friends to wax rhapsodic over
pretty much anything that results. I believe
anyone can write a melody. Whether it's
good or not is another thing; but if one
had to do it—if, say, one's life depended
on it—the pivotal procedure some sort of
test is easily determined. The first step in
the writing of a tune is to have a congeni-
tal bent; there must be some native talent;
it need not be great to succeed, but it must
be there. Eminent success, of course, pre-
supposes outstanding talent, but a small
gift can go far—provided and there comes
a point how that it is coupled with a keen
editorial sense of self-criticism. This, alas,
most tunesmiths lack. Thus, the next step
is to be able to make shrewd, intelligent
comparisons between your tunes and good
tunes.

Somewhere along the way, I suppose,
one should talk about preliminary training
for tune writers. This is embarrassing because I had
none. In our family, my older brother got
the musical training, I practiced a while
which, ultimately, I practiced for a while
in college, I registered for work in theory,
but the instruction died and the course was
dropped. But tunes kept running around
in my head, so to get rid of them I became
a composer. I started writing in my late
twenties. After about three years, I finished
my first great Broadway score. When that
point I thought I ought to know something
first of composition, and began formal study.
It confused me. So I put my dilemma be-
fore Robert Russell Bennett who advised
that, if the only result of study was to mix
up, I stop studying. This I did, with
gusto. Next, I went through a period of
worrying about how I was to get on with-
out the background which men like Kern
and Gershwin took for granted. I found
help in studying by myself. I read some
texts (not too many); listened to all the
music I could, evaluating form, structure,
line, mood; and worked out the piano parts
of everything I wrote, although I had never
studied the piano. Beyond that, I have had
no formal training.

Now we come to the big thing—how does
one write a good tune? I cannot tell you,
I doubt that anyone can. The most any of
us can do is to tell how he works himself.

I work in many ways, but one point ap-
plies to all: if a phrase occurs to me—
which, after inspection, seems less than
good (they all seem wonderful as they oc-
cur), I drop it. If a phrase strikes me as
good, or even pretty good, I pursue it re-
lentlessly. In my files, I have an eight-bar
phrase which seems good; it came to me
over a year ago and I still haven't been
able to solve it. As the result of pure luck
and critical experience, Dancing in the
Dark was finished in a few minutes.

The best advice is to write—Keep on
writing. Don't wait for inspiration; just
turn things out, judging your results as
critically as you can. Pursue ideas—at the
piano, while walking, while resting. If you
can't think of a melody, concentrate on the
kind (or form, or style) of melody you
want. When I wrote Revenge with Music,
with Howard Dietz, I wanted a big song
with a slightly Hispanic flavor. I had no
ideas at all. Then I took a boat trip. Walk-
ing the deck, I conjured my bits for a
theme; still nothing came. So I started
thinking of the kind of tune I wanted—the
minor mode, a long melodic line. Think-
ing in form stirred something, and we
came to a tune: You and the Night and
The Music.

Jerome Kern taught me to write some-
thing every day. That was his own method.
Not everything he wrote was useful; still
he kept on writing—not just thinking of
tunes, but letting them down. Romberg,
Friml, and many other prolific writers did
the same, discarding the practice of turn-
ing out promising bits for future use.
On the other hand, Richard Rodgers once
said that he has never written anything
without some definite need, or decision,
or obligation, to speak of.

I believe that to achieve a large output
you need not be a superman with contin-
ued natural talent combined with a great
editorial sense is better than a great plot
and an honest musical ability. This critical
faculty must be trained early. The writer's
library, i.e., a matter of comparison, is
the only way to do it. I used to be fond,
particularly of the big, good, popular,
machine. The best way to learn is to sit down
and study the scores of those you admire
and the pieces that continue to attract
you. Compare. Analyze. If you have the
ambition to become a craftsman in tune-
writing, the time spent in listening and
study will pay off in accuracy and taste.

If you are inclined to write for the stage,
study the great Broadway shows. If you
are inclined to write for films, study film
scores. A musical language is a function
of its medium. To write effectively you
must know the mechanics of your medium.
This means attention to form, to how
long a number should last, to dramatic
and economic requirements. You must
learn to resist cleverness that is not func-
tional. I have seen charming devices and
tuneful things wrecked by being inserted
where the drama did not need them.

On the other hand, do not be enslaved
to formula. The best things are those that
are honest and original in feeling. A tune
that sounds trite may nevertheless be
true to its situation.

Finally, learn to collaborate. The
partnership of words and music is a subtle
one. Some composers insist on doing all
the dramatic thinking themselves; others
prefer a writer who will furnish a ready-made
number for them to set. The healthiest
procedure, for my money, is to work with
people who know what they want and
are willing to discuss their material openly.
A song or number that is the product of
good teamwork is likely to survive.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 10

[Right page: top left corner small group photograph showing four women seated around a table covered with large sheets of paper; two women hold up sheets. Caption above and to the right of this photo:]
(L. to r.) Susan Sparks (student), Ann Hutchinson (president, Dance Notation Bu-
reau, N. Y.), Nadia Chilkovsky and Rhona
Lloyd discuss Labanotation on TV show.

[Below, small photograph of a group of young girls seated around a table looking at notation sheets. Caption beneath:]
A group of Nadia Chilkovsky's students,
aged 9 to 15, examine a notated dance.

[Small vertical photograph of a girl holding and reading a large sheet of notation. Caption beneath:]
Fai Coleman, 12-year-old dance and
notation student "reading" a dance.

[Tall narrow photo at far right of two women looking at a display of printed notation pages. Caption above it:]
First exhibit of Labanotation at the Public
Library in Philadelphia, in 1951. On dis-
play were prints of dance movement nota-
tion systems of the 16th century.

The Dance Art Develops a Notation

Few individuals, even those greatly interested in ballet, realize that there is
very little recorded of the works of choreographers, past or present.

by Nadia Chilkovsky

IMAGINE a world in which there is no
music literature, no shops to sell sheet
music, no scores written by the great com-
posers of other centuries, no great sym-
phony orchestras! Such indeed might de-
scribe the predicament, until quite recently,
of those seriously interested in the plight of
the dancer. For the basic truth is that the
dance has not yet accumulated a literature.
There is no exact recording of the ballets
of great choreographers of the past. As a
matter of fact, there is very little recorded of
the works by the present day choreo-
graphers. How many of the thousands of
dancing teachers and students throughout
the country are familiar with the works of
the contemporary masters of choreog-
raphy? Compare this number with the
number of musicians who have become
familiar with the musical compositions of
past and present day composers and the
answer is obvious. Music is a recorded art.
It has been recorded for more than a cen-
tury and literature and materials of music
are available to all students who wish to
examine them. And now the dance comes
into a new focus as an important art,

for in dance, too, there is now the possi-
bility of achieving a collection of study
materials.

The advent of a functional system of
movement notation is casting a new radi-
ance over dancing as an art. While the
system of notation has not appeared in a
burst of glory, the work of a few devoted
proponents here and abroad and gingerly
sampling by dancers in our major cultural
centers during the past twenty-five years
have found it to be practical, logical and
adaptable to every style of dance and to
every form of movement as used in in-
dustry, sports and psycho-therapy. After
almost five hundred years of adolescence,
dance notation has become established
upon adult feet. Dance is ready to proclaim
its coming of age. Dance literacy is the be-
ginning of a new era in dance.

The first published record of dance ap-
peared in 1588. The book, entitled "Or-
chesography," is in the form of a dialogue
between the author Thoinot Arbeau and
his pupil, Capriol. The word descriptions
of the steps, however, and the accompanying
figure illustrations are more interesting as a
reflection of the manners of polite society
of the day rather than as a true record of
the dances. From the beginning of the 18th
century, with the publication of the Feuillet
system of notation steps and floor patterns,
there have been scattered efforts to develop
an efficient dance alphabet. The most persis-
tent of these efforts has resulted in the nota-
tion of the dances of the classic balletic
period. The limitations of each system show
up when one attempts to record the dances
of the modern age. For instance, the Laban
system of notation would produce among
other things that the recording of movement
in space, movement in time, all forms of
movement and expression in the hand, head
and face would be complex to record. In
1928, after years of study, Rudolph Laban
published his system of notation which
proved to be flexible enough to be applied
to many styles and types of movement.

[Article continues in small type across two columns; remaining visible paragraphs discuss the development and uses of Labanotation, efforts and exhibitions to publicize it, the role of proponents and educators, and its usefulness in preserving choreographic works. Specific references are made to exhibits (such as the first exhibit of Labanotation at the Public Library in Philadelphia in 1951), television discussions, and the teaching of notation to young students, illustrated by the photographs on the page.]

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 11

(Note: Photographs on the right page — top left shows four women in discussion around large sheets of notation; top center shows a group of girls aged about 9–15 examining a notated dance laid out on a table; center right shows a 12-year-old girl, Fai Coleman, holding and reading a large notation sheet; far right vertical photograph shows two women examining displayed prints of dance notation, part of the first Labanotation exhibit at the Public Library in Philadelphia in 1951.)
All too few church organists realize the interesting possibilities offered by the combination of flute with their chosen instrument.

AN INSTRUMENTAL combination with great musical possibilities — such is the union of flute with organ. That such a musical wedding should be a particularly happy one is only natural; both are wind instruments and blend well together by very nature. Anyone who has heard the numerous organ broadcasts by E. Power Biggs which have utilized the services of Phillip Kaplan as flutist, cannot have failed to recognize the singularly felicitous tonal blend of these two instruments. Yet all too few church organists seem to make use of the interesting and delightfully different recital program which the flute, brought in to supplement the organ, is able to offer. The writer has had the pleasure of participating in a number of church recitals in conjunction with the organ; it is his hope to arouse interest in such recitals by calling attention to some of the excellent music that is available for flute and organ, as well as to point out some of the problems and considerations which come to the fore in preparing successful performances with this combination.

No one should ever feel that the flute is out of place in the church, yet in some quarters there still seems to be something of a old-fashioned prejudice against using the flute in a church recital; the idea that "it may be all right for a radio broadcast . . ." "This is a ridiculous prejudice and not even "old-fashioned." What the "old-fashioned" idea on this subject really was is clearly revealed in K. H. MacDermott's delightful book, "The Old Church Gallery Minstrels" (1948), wherein he lists some of the instruments which were used in the churches of England in the "old days" (1660-1860); they were: "Band, baritone, bass-horn, bassoon, bass viol, clarinet, coronet, cornet, cornopean, drum, euphonium, flageolet, fife, flute, French horn, Kent bugle, oboe, ophicleide, serpent, triangle, violin, violoncello, tin whistle," (1) . . . These instruments were evidently considered perfectly acceptable. Primary consideration must be to select music that will be suitable and proper for dignified church use. This music must be selected from the "flute and piano" category, inasmuch as there is almost nothing that has been composed under the "flute and organ" label. All organists understand that certain styles of piano-writing transfer over to organ particularly well, and this is an important factor in selecting the flute music which is to be played.

The flute sonatas of the eighteenth century, with keyboard parts consisting (in most cases) of figured bass realizations, are particularly good for flute and organ, and have been much featured by E. Power Biggs on his Sunday morning broadcasts from Harvard's Busch-Reisinger Museum. And thus far it has indeed been more seventeenth and eighteenth century material than later flute music which has been featured with organ. Actually, however, it is only in the later nineteenth and twentieth century flute music where the full resources, the marvellous registrational and color possibilities of the modern organ may be fully brought into play. Unfortunately, very little has been done to bring flute and organ together on nineteenth and twentieth century music; as a matter of fact, such numbers as the famous Concertino for Flute by Mme. Chaminade, and Solo de Concours by Emile Paladilhe are even more effective with organ accompaniment than with piano. And famous organ-concertos (Guilmant, Rheinberger, Widor and Dubois each contributed at least one original work for flute and keyboard).(2)

There are a number of considerations and problems to be reckoned with, if we are to achieve a truly successful union of flute and organ; of primary importance are the acoustics of the building in which one is playing. The acoustics of a high, vaulted stone church naturally differ from those of Boston's Symphony Hall or New York's Carnegie Hall. Flute tone, like organ tone, tends to "bounce back" in a live "bright" hall; thus the acoustics of the particular church may well determine the tempi and type of music chosen.

Certain acoustical properties can be judged fairly quickly. Generally speaking, a small building with a low ceiling and upholstered seats, or the choir loft and rostrum decorated with ferns and hung with draperies will tend to muffle the tone and subtract substantially from the brilliance of the sound. Under such circumstances a somewhat faster tempo to offset the lazy acoustics is justified. On the other hand, in large buildings with lofty ceilings or domes, where the sound waves spread so widely and so rapidly, a decreased speed in allegros and prestos will help to preserve clarity of contour, and will avoid the distressing impression of agitation and tremolo which excessive speed plus over-resonance tends to create. One should remember that many composers set down tempo markings at home in a small room with only a piano (Continued on Page 56)

The Fascinating Ensemble of Flute and Organ

by Laurence Taylor

[Black-and-white photograph, upper left page: Portrait of a young man in a dark suit and tie, holding a flute at chest level with both hands; he faces slightly to the viewer's left and looks off-camera. The photograph is surrounded by a white border with a small caption line beneath it that is not clearly legible in the image.]

Also, see Dickinson, Clarence: "Adapting Piano Accompaniments to the Organ" in his The Transposition and Score of Organ Playing, New York, 1922. Part I, Ch. VI, pp. 29-37.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 12

[Right-hand page header, top right across both columns: The intriguing account of how the Music Teachers National Association came into existence and what it has come to mean to the thousands of teachers all over the United States.]

Theodore Presser

THE FOUNDER of the Music Teachers National Association was Theodore Presser, then of Delaware, Ohio.

In the summer of 1876, Mr. Presser called William H. Dana, of Warren, Ohio, into conference with him regarding the organizing of a Music Teachers National Association, which, in its character, was to be to the music teachers of this country what the National Education Association is to other educators and public school teachers throughout the country. After some discussion Presser and Dana adjourned. In October of the same year, Mr. Dana was again called to Delaware, and there, in association with Mr. Presser, a program was formulated.

The need for such an organization grew out of the experiences of Messrs. Presser and Dana. Mr. Presser up to that time had been connected as a music teacher with two different educational institutions. As a music teacher he found that the pupils who came under his guidance were poorly prepared for the work they wished to undertake. As for Mr. Dana, he had traveled over seven states of the Union during the three years previous to that time, visiting music teachers in cities, towns and hamlets, and in almost every case, according to his own words, "found them incompetent."

As William H. Dana wrote later in life, "Hence it would not be out of place to say that the deplorable condition of music as a whole called into existence the Music Teachers National Association. It was founded on lines as to _the need of musical study, especially the new thought as to methods_, which were limited. Emphasis was just upon the fact that it was for the benefit of all, and that to be successful all 'axe-grinding' was to be eliminated from speech and performance."(1)

Invitations to attend an organizational meeting were sent out, and on December 26, 1876, sixty-two men from the convention field, from the public schools, piano teachers, voice teachers, and conservatory managers met in Delaware, Ohio. The sixty-two men, including such greats as George W. Chadwick, Calvin B. Cady, Karl Mertz, William H. Dana, Fenelon R. Rice, and George R. Root, had one common interest, that of improving music teaching in this country. According to the records, every speaker at that meeting "depored [depored likely misprint for deposed?] the lack of culture and knowledge on the part of teachers in the various branches of musical enterprise." (2) This was the beginning of the Music Teachers National Association.

At that time there were nine state organizations which affiliated with the National Association. Now there are twenty-seven state Music Teachers Associations affiliated with the Music Teachers National Association. Additional state associations are in the formative stage, and one state association is now readying itself for affiliation. Present membership is a little more than seven thousand, with a potential estimated at anywhere from one-hundred thousand to one-half million.

However, the strength and power of the Association can not be calculated solely in the number of members currently enrolled. Only those who have attended the conventions, including not only the programs and sectional meetings but the business sessions, those who have served as officers of the Association contributing their knowledge, skill, personal integrity, time and money, those who have worked behind the scenes, oftentimes without honor or fanfare, in short, only those who have participated in the workings of the Association can fully appreciate the contributions made by the Association not only to the improvement of music teaching, but to the advancement of the musical life of this country.

During the first thirty years of its life, from 1876 to 1906, twenty-eight annual meetings were held, but reports of those meetings are incomplete and difficult to obtain. Available records give accounts of meetings; at which students seemingly, and with the high ideals of the founders, were expected to play for the edification of the teachers. These early meetings were noted for the lack of organization and the lack of a proper program. Some of the meetings took the shape of concerts interspersed with the reading of papers usually dealing with the pedagogy of music.

Nevertheless, the Association made definite contributions to music pedagogy and to the professional musical life of the United States. According to some writers the Music Teachers National Association was influential in the establishment of an international pitch. Undoubtedly the discussions and recommendations made at these early meetings influenced those in responsible positions for the setting up of schools and institutions which offered some protection to composers and authors. Certainly the Music Teachers National Association assisted greatly in the establishing of a standard tune and keyboard for pipe organs. Thus, it can be seen that matters which today are taken for granted were vital problems to musicians and teachers fifty to (Continued on Page 49)

The Story of MTNA

by S. Turner Jones
Executive Secretary

[Black-and-white photograph upper right page: Portrait of an older man (Theodore Presser) wearing a dark suit and tie, facing slightly right, looking off-camera. Caption above photo: Theodore Presser.]

[Black-and-white photograph lower right page: Portrait of William H. Dana, a middle-aged man wearing glasses, a dark suit and tie, facing forward. Caption beneath photo: William H. Dana.]

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 13
In the field of music teaching,
as in every other activity,
there is no denying that

Results Count!

An Editorial by JAMES FRANCIS COOKE

MANY TEACHERS of music have written to the writer, “I know teachers who have not had half the educational opportunities that I have had, who secure more applications from pupils than they can accept. Why don’t I succeed in that way?”

This question almost answers itself. It came in all probability from a teacher who has not produced results comparable with those of her competitors. The world demands results, and results are the best kind of advertising a teacher can have.

An associate of the late George Washington Crile (1864–1943), internationally known Ohio-born surgeon, once told the writer that the famous physician was often asked what was the young physician’s road to success. He replied: “Results, results, results. Nobody wants to patronize a doctor who does not show a high average of results, no matter how many university degrees he may have framed upon his walls. Pills and plasters and prognoses are all right, but what the patient wants is to get well.”

We have known many teachers who have had especially fine training, who after leaving the college or the conservatory entered into a kind of dream world of self-admiration. They assumed a ludicrous attitude of superiority toward all prospective pupils. One young man in immediate financial difficulties, came to the writer’s office and laid down an exceptionally prepared circular, citing his years of study under prominent masters and following this with reprints of newspaper notices of concert appearances in European cities. But such evidence did not necessarily make him a perfect teacher. He had never produced any work while pupils became more and more content to let such a teacher sit upon a shelf. It is not at all complimentary to the teacher to publish notices and patents of praise of his concert appearances, that the pupils got very little from the lessons.

I remember, as I was the friend of an acquaintance, we took time to rewrite the circular emphasizing three phases of music study in which prospective patrons might be interested. We endeavored to get him to focus his mind sharply upon the pupil instead of himself. He added two specimen programs of his more successful pupils. He also added half-tone portraits of the two attractive young ladies. In a few weeks, greatly to his surprise, patrons commenced to come in, and he soon secured a profitable teaching clientele.

Perhaps the most fortunate attitude any teacher who is not producing results can take is that of asking himself some very pertinent questions. Such a list of questions might start with:

Do I keep an accurate account of each pupil’s work, week by week, month by month, year by year?

We have known in Europe many noted teachers who, when they secured a new pupil, procured a sizable notebook in which the pupil’s progress at every lesson was carefully recorded. Edouard Schutt (himself a pupil of Leschetitzky) and an excellent pianist, although better known as a composer, showed me such books at his home in the Italian Alps at Merano. In Oslo, Norway, Christian Sinding showed me books in which he made records of his work as a teacher. Sinding kept careful notebooks of his musical inspirations. He had a great number of little black books with very small leaves in which he recorded themes in microscopic notes. He called them the Norwegian equivalent of “musical piggy banks.”

Some record books are used by many American teachers. One teacher remarked, “Why shouldn’t the teacher keep careful records just as a bank keeps records? When money is deposited in the bank, an account is immediately opened in the depositor’s name. At any time the bank can tell almost instantly the amount of the depositor’s balance. Of course, an account can be entered like money, but it is not too difficult for a competent teacher to put down with fair and just exactness the regularity just what the pupil is accomplishing.”

When Mr. Theodore Presser returned from his two years’ course at the Leipzig Conservatory, he brought with him his “Schein” or diploma signed by Karl Richter, Jadassohn, Zwintscher and other members of the faculty. This Schein now hangs upon the wall of the Presser Memorial Room at the entrance of the Presser Home for Retired Music Teachers in Germantown, a suburb of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He told the writer that records of his work, even the compositions and the editions he had used, were preserved in the archives of the Conservatory, along with the score of Edvard Grieg. Sir Arthur Sullivan and other famous students, he related, were ranked that this always gave the student a sense of responsibility and was a stimulus in his progress. He realized that somebody cared what he was doing and kept an eye upon his work. This stimulated a serious personal concern in his own life career.

We have known of some American teachers who, after they had gone into practice, gave no more subsequent thought to it than would a soda clerk to a balance and after he had served it. Possibly the pedantic or too meticulous teachers of other days were a bit too meticulous, but they had made records. Many of the leading American colleges and conservatories go to great lengths to keep necessary records of the students’ work and find that it pays.

Music teaching considered from many standpoints — psychological, sociological, educational and cultural — is a very important occupation. Its real leaders look on it very seriously. The young doctor graduating from any foremost medical school receives from the American Medical Association a booklet containing the Oath of Hippocrates (allegedly 2300 years old) by which young physicians dedicate their lives to support the highest principles of the profession. Perhaps a music teacher upon entering the musical profession should take a similar oath. Here is a possible musical adaptation of the principles of that Oath:

One might call it the Oath of Orpheus:

(Continued on Page 47)

ETUDE — OCTOBER 1954

SINGERS who, like myself, are Italian born and Italian trained, are frequently asked about the “secret” of Italian singing. Exactly why has Italy been enabled, both in the past and now, to produce such a generous supply of good singing? At first, the question startled me somewhat; but now that I have given thought to it, I think I see three separate reasons.

First, we must take the climate into consideration. Italy is blessed with much warmth, much sunshine, and little humidity, all of which are good for the voice. But other parts of the world also enjoy comparable climatic conditions—parts of the United States feel very much like Italy!—so the entire credit cannot be given to weather alone. Next, we have the Italian language which is perfect for good singing, consisting as it does of pure, open vowels and uncomplicated consonants. When you are accustomed from childhood to speaking in the same vocal formations which must be learned for good singing, the singing comes to you more easily. Still, I hardly feel that language alone explains the “Italian voice.” In third place, then, and most important, is the classic Italian method of singing. And granting that climate and language are splendid aids in learning this method, it must nonetheless be carefully learned!

The first step in good singing—and one which, in Italy, is given the greatest consideration—is breathing. We spend much time in mastering the correct intake of air. This is always a breath originating in the diaphragm, supported by the strong abdominal muscles, and never involving the chest. No matter how deep a breath you draw, chest and shoulders should never move! It is a bad mistake to mix diaphragmatic breathing with chest breathing, as sometimes can happen. The great secret of good singing is to rest every tone—loud or soft, high or low—on a purely diaphragmatic breath. Once this has been thoroughly mastered, it is quite possible for a singer to be suffering from cold or constriction of the chest, and yet to produce beautiful tones. Chest-breathing deceives the singer into thinking she is drawing a full breath, but actually she is not. The light breath for singing must be controlled from the diaphragm and the best breath is that which is slightly supported beneath the lower part of the lungs. In my own teaching I have my pupils take the air into the mouth, keep the mouth in the same position as it would be while singing, and then, with the soft palate raised, keep the throat cavity open and kept open,

Miss Barbieri as Aida

Fedora Barbieri herself

Is there an “Italian” Method?

A leading star of the Metropolitan Opera Association presents interesting and revealing facts concerning the “secret” of Italian singing.

From an interview with Fedora Barbieri
Secured by Myles Fellowes

and the organs of speech remain relaxed. Singing vocalises on an OH formation of the lips, teeth, the passages which should remain free. Especially the throat and neck must be relaxed. While you are vocalising, put your hand gently to your throat; if you feel the slightest tension, something is wrong with your method of emission. Whether you sing high or low, loud or soft, the throat and neck must always feel relaxed as if they had no muscles at all! This type of emission gives a sweetness of color and avoids harshness. Here, the Italian language is helpful since its natural sounds involve no harshness; still, the singer must master

the technique against the time when she will be called upon to sing the “throughs” of English, or the “Achs” and “Icks” of German. The same relaxed technique must be applied to any sounds in any language. For this, it is wise to remember that the way you, or singing, mouth position must be maintained in the same degree of openness for all vowel sounds. So must the tone sound—all, as a rule, be even in exactly the same position, and modifying the mouth position only as much as is required by the lips to distinguish clearly among the vowels. (Continued on Page 60)

14 ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 15
LISZT TREASURES IN WASHINGTON
(Continued from Page 9)

edition appeared in 1842 [more likely 1841] and was printed by Schuberth in Hamburg. It was not a white-haired disappointed Liszt, but the idolized virtuoso at the pinnacle of his glory, who set his biographers this example of moderation, truthfulness, and good taste.

Particularly touching among Liszt's autograph improvements was his insistence that his own boyhood teacher, Carl Czerny, be given his full measures of "praise" and "gratitude." It would seem that only a great soul can exhibit such thoughtful generosity.

The Library of Congress has another highly significant and unexplored specimen of Liszt's carefully considered reflections and expressions. It is a notebook, used by the composer in 1848, in which he drafted letters that he had to write to friends, near-friends and professional colleagues. He had the commendable, though time-consuming, habit of "roughing-out" a letter first in order to voice his thoughts as explicitly or as effectively as possible. Two of these drafts were intended for recipients in America—Horace Ziegfeld, director of the Chicago Musical College (and father of the later producer of the Ziegfeld Follies), and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, the great American poet, whom Liszt had met in Rome in 1868.

No biographer seems yet to have used this notebook, which is crammed with important observations (in their first form), messages and references. Liszt was interested in current events and famous contemporaries, many of whom he knew well, and he was sensitive to their weaknesses as well as their strengths. Here, too, are sketches of a general view—including a sketch of a temperance song, a plea on the composer's nature which is all too little known.

The Schubert collection, already mentioned, was reported as having 21 of Liszt's autograph manuscripts, a description which needs some modification. One of these is a printed work on which Liszt wrote changes and corrections. Six of the pieces are arrangements or editions of music by other composers, and two original works of a small nature comprise the remainder. It is pleasant to note the Schubertlike taste in many of these fragments. Also in the Schubert collection are some of Liszt's notebooks, with their roughly penciled sketches and arrangements, which are strong evidence of the composer's further creative defects, but at the same time they show also a careful hand in the final correction of some of the larger works. The "Grandes Etudes de Paganini" are represented by drafts and papers. The true grandeur of Liszt's art is revealed in these amended scores. One of these drafts is a small sketch for the Rhapsodie Espagnole which is orchestrated—an encomium which his collaborator must have warmly welcomed.

The largest single manuscript of Liszt's in the Library of Congress, and a most important one for what it discloses, is his autograph of the celebrated Soirées de Vienne of 1852. Few pianists today play the whole set—and more's the pity—but rare indeed is the pianist or piano student who has not played one or two of the pieces, invariably taken with real charm, and the skill of the performer. There are some Soirées in the entire set, rare, charming and fanciful and brilliant piano fantasies based upon the Viennese waltz melodies of Franz Schubert. They are far more than mere transcriptions; indeed, Liszt took these themes of his predecessor (whom he adored), juxtaposed them anew, extended them, dressed them up in virtuoso guise, and vastly enlarged Schubert's original modest conceptions. On the other hand, he did not cheapen the beautiful dance airs; he ornamented and augmented them so as to make them suitable for the large concert hall in which intimate dance music is less at home than in the taverns that Schubert so merrily frequented.

Besides offering a series of new and ideal lessons in the art of piano paraphrase, the Soirées de Vienne has a sentimental value which every follower of Liszt must cherish. This is explained in an essay which I had the privilege of writing for The Library of Congress Quarterly Journal of Current Acquisitions in 1949 and from which I shall venture to borrow a paragraph.

In his old age Liszt played the piano little. He was the grand seigneur, felt and sought after. If persuaded to play at all he would obviously turn to those pieces which lay nearest his heart. During the last month of his life (he died on July 31, 1886), he was invited to the castle of the Hungarian painter, Michael Munkácsy, where he stayed from the 5th to the 20th of July. A special concert was arranged in his honor on July 19 in nearby Luxembourg, and before he departed he was prevailed upon to play. He chose three pieces: his Liebestraum, No. 1; a chant polonaise from the Glanes de l'Oratoire, and the sixth Soirée de Vienne. It is not recorded that he ever touched the keyboard again.

It is curious, but not surprising, that Liszt was especially fond of the sixth Soirée, the same one that so many students have played. It is the most adolescent of all the set—a little, almost flirtatious work in bare octaves, the second half a succession of adroitly written textures, rounded by purling triplets of ineffable grace. Liszt may have felt that something more was needed, and he subsequently expanded this Soirée to give it more éclat and brightness. An autograph manuscript containing this addition has been found in the Library of Congress, where it awaits further study. It contains, too, emendations to some of Liszt's most notable operatic transcriptions, among them the formidable Don Juan Fantasy, which posterity has judged severely without benefit of full comprehension.

This brief recital of Liszt sources and resources by no means exhausts the capacity of the Library of Congress to satisfy a researcher delving into the composer's career. There are many autograph letters and many first editions, some of the later bearing Liszt's corrections for later printings. He composed rapidly, not slowly like Beethoven, but he was always eager to improve his work and refine his art. In this respect, and in others less readily acknowledged, he stands out as a model to young composers of the present day. Properly understood, he should be an inspiration for contemporary music students, for his was a questing mind which ranged over many fields of knowledge and spiritual satisfaction. The documents in the Library of Congress attest this, and reveal the perfection he was always striving after. If he fell short of the mark, it was because he was human and suffered from the ills the rest of human flesh is heir to.

Franz Liszt remains one of the most mysterious, attractive, even self-spirited and irritating persons in the whole history of music. Studied as a man or as an artist, his deficiencies are not the least part of his interest. But it is good to know that the national library in Washington has in its unusual amount of some material about this significant man and profoundly influenced the development of music with a minimum of pretentiousness and a great love of musical values. As additional lines are added to the Library of Congress, the collection will serve as of increasing significance as an important one for the study of the composer in his art, and of romanticism in general. And the stronger the collection becomes, the more satisfied Americans may feel about the breadth of the cultural inheritance the Old World has passed on and experienced in the New. THE END

AN IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT

ETUDE is privileged to announce that the November issue will introduce Ralph E. Rush as the newest addition to its already excellent staff of departmental editors. Mr. Rush is well known as a teacher of orchestral instruments and will have a long time association with the readers of ETUDE with special responsibility for the orchestral and band departments. Mr. Rush is Chairman of the Music Department and Associate Professor of Music and Education at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles. He is nationally known in educational fields and from 1952-1954 was president of the Music Educators National Conference. His instructive activity will deal with school orchestras and the problems which arise in the daily program of the school orchestra. Mr. Rush is Chairman of the Music Department of the University of Southern California, Los Angeles. In addition to the University activities he has served as an instructor and clinician at numerous state and national conventions. His knowledge of school orchestra problems and the necessary requirements for a successful school orchestra program will be of material value to every conductor.

Caption under photo:
L. to R., Bruce, Nancy, Marilyn, Richard, Jane, and Stephen, the six piano-playing children of Mr. and Mrs. Earl C. Crawford of Rumford, Rhode Island, with their music-loving dog, Skie. The children have appeared in recitals in solo and ensemble numbers.

CHORAL DEPARTMENT

(ETUDE takes pleasure in presenting herewith the first article in the new Choral Department edited by George Howerton, Dean of the School of Music, Northeastern University, Evanston, Illinois. It is hoped that workers in the school choral field will come to look upon Dean Howerton's monthly department as a source of practical help in the every day classroom problems. — Ed.)

by George Howerton

Present Aims and Objectives in Choral Music

An authoritative appraisal of the present day choral situation—its assets as well as its liabilities—with suggestions looking to improvement along the way.

THE WIDESPREAD attention now given to choral singing as a field for special development is a comparatively recent phenomenon in American music. While there have always been choral performances and widespread use of choral music, still, by and large, it is only in the second quarter of the twentieth century that the choral art has taken its place among the significant musical entities.

It is well for chorally minded persons to pause just now and take stock of the present situation. What have been our principal accomplishments? What should be our immediate concerns, and to what goals do we look in the future? In this past quarter of a century, the period of development or emergence, the primary concern of the choral conductor appears to have been the art of technique. This was thoroughly developed. As the choral pioneers looked toward the field for literature to sing, it was obvious that for artistic performance of this music a group of trained singers would be prerequisite. Consequently, the conductors usually acquired himself with the development of technical proficiency. Many persons who have observed or participated in the choral work of the past decades can recall how careful attention was given to fundamentals: to breath, placement, resonance, diction, blend, intonation and balance. These are essential to good choral singing; they will always demand the most careful concentration by the conductor. However, one eventually reaches a stage in the training process where technique must be conceived as a means, and not as an end. Technical excellence must become a servant of musical expression rather than a substitute for it. Unless the conductor keeps this broader perspective in mind, the choir runs the risk of becoming merely an ensemble of well trained voices without interpretive power.

The greatest precision as regards technical detail; that same attention to literature of good quality could produce a performance of real artistic value, but when applied to material of little intrinsic worth produces a result that hardly seems to justify the efforts expended.

It is not a matter of the mood or character of the literature. The problem is to secure music of intrinsic value, in the right degree and proportion. One must demand that the literature be fundamentally sound, whether it be folk songs, spirituals, or the latest opus by a contemporary composer. When the repertoire has been carefully chosen and well prepared, there will be a meaningful experience for the singers and an honest communication to the listeners.

Some of the best music of all times is extremely popular; some that is highly difficult to sing is not for the amateur choirs. It is the duty of the conductor to know his choir and its capabilities, and to plan an edifying program. There must be an insistence upon musical integrity, but there must also be an understanding of the limitations of school and community choirs. Some of the finest music will be beyond their reach; choose wisely.

Once a composition is selected, and before it is placed in rehearsal, the conductor should make a careful musical analysis with regard to stylistic considerations. One of the most prevalent deficiencies on the part of present-day choral conductors is a frequently appalling lack of awareness in matters of style. This may be due to insufficient knowledge or it may be simply a failure to apply musical standards. The conductor knows but fails to utilize in his musical performance.

It is chiefly a matter of courage if there is a failure to attempt the better things. The part of present-day choral conductors is a frequently appalling lack of awareness in matters of style. This may be due to insufficient knowledge or it may be merely a failure to apply musical standards. The conductor knows but fails to utilize in his musical performance. It is chiefly a matter of courage if there is a failure to attempt the better things. All of this must be remedied by careful selection of literature and by a knowledge of style.

[Text continues beyond visible area on next page.]

Descriptions of the non-textual images:
- Top right portrait: a black-and-white head-and-shoulders photograph of a middle-aged man wearing a dark suit and tie. He is facing slightly to his left and looking at the camera with a neutral, composed expression. The photo is captioned with the byline of the article (by George Howerton).
- Lower-center photo (left page): a black-and-white photograph showing six children gathered around an upright piano; a woman stands at the piano and the children are seated or standing close by, some looking at sheet music on the piano. A small dog is visible among them at the piano bench. The children appear to be of varying ages (young to early teens). The caption lists their names and identifies them as piano-playing children of Mr. and Mrs. Earl C. Crawford of Rumford, Rhode Island, and notes that they have appeared in recitals in solo and ensemble numbers.
New Records

Reviewed by
PAUL N. ELBIN

Tchaikovsky: Symphony No. 6 in B Minor,
Op. 74

Capitol's fall releases boast an improved jacket, an inside protective envelope, the R.I.A.A. recording curve (thoughtfully indicated)—and a new level of excellence for FDS sound. Tchaikovsky's Pathétique presents the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in its finest disc-light to date, the reproduction being what the hi-fi world calls terrific. Unless you object that the second movement is not sufficiently con grazia, you will likely find William Steinberg's reading as well-conceived as any in the long list of competing discs. (Capitol P-8272)

R. Strauss/Till Eulenspiegel; Lustige
Streiche; Waltzes from "Der Rosenkavalier"

This 10-inch disc is a good example of the need for mid-size LP's. Each work is complete to a side, yet the buyer is not required to buy a whole orchestral program to get Till Eulenspiegel, which, in this case, is given a notable reading and recording. Eugene Ormandy is hard to beat for music of this type, and the Philadelphia Orchestra proves through the score like a 200-horsepower automobile climbing Pike's Peak. (Columbia AL 46)

Operatic Recital—Nicolai Gedda

At this stage of his career, promising tenor Nicolai Gedda must choose his recital material with unusual care. Thoroughly effective in Puccini and German songs, his recital of Italian arias here is sung with considerable taste and style. The general tone of his voice is light and brilliantly placed. In the well-known arias Gedda's phrasing is spirited, and he conveys more intensity and better coloring than many lyric tenors today. The orchestral accompaniment is skillfully handled by Alceo Galliera and the recorded sound has a silken texture. (Angel 35096)

Handel: Messiah

London Records' Messiah is complete to the last recit, and it must be judged a successful recording. What the performance lacks in drama it boasts in dignity. Sir Adrian Boult, who conducts the London Philharmonic Orchestra and Chorus, maintains a steady beat, taking the Hallelujah Chorus (for instance) nobly rather than in the breathless style to which many of us in America are accustomed. The soloists tend to over-emphasize diction at times resulting in dryness and then in faulty intonation. Nor are they over-zealous in their interpretations. On the whole, however, Jennifer Vyvyan (soprano), Norman Pritchard (contralto), George Maran (tenor), and Owen Brannigan (bass) sing their parts sincerely and pleasingly. (London LAC 140)

Bach Organ Music

It all depends on how you like your Bach organ music. Jeanne Demessieux, distinguished young French organist, belongs to the school of performers who emphasize clarity and linear texture rather than heavy romanticism. If you enjoy a brisk, vital approach to Bach and want technical brilliance as well, this record will give you much pleasure. She uses the great organ at St. Etienne-du-Mont in Paris with effective registration and crisp articulation. (Remington R-199-1557)

[Portrait photograph: Dr. Paul N. Elbin. Caption below photo:]
Dr. Paul N. Elbin

bugs who want to test their Klipschorns or their bass reflex cabinets will find plenty of bass on this record. (London 946)

Folk Dances and Songs from Russia

Colossus assures American buyers that "No part of the proceeds from this record inures to the benefit of the Soviet Socialist Republics or any of its agents or representatives." Thus relieved of fear of future investigation, we may consider this disc on its merits—which are considerable. There are eighteen different titles, some of the pieces being orchestral and others vocal. The orchestra is the Osipov Russian Balalaika Symphony, the soloists four Russian males with the qualities associated with authentic Russian singing. Reproduction is only fair, but the performances make the most of their homeland music. (Columbia CRLP 141)

Debussy: La Boîte à Joujoux

Though played with splendid finesse by the RIAS Symphony Orchestra of Berlin under Josef Perlea, the score is not something to remember Debussy by. Indeed Debussy grew tired of the "Box of Toys" ballet and felt the piano version so transparent that until recent years it has been rarely used. Here the orchestral rendering is nicely done, but the music itself is of minor importance in Debussy's output. (Remington R-199-1559)

Music for the Organ

Not to be outdone by Aeolian-Skinner, the Möller organ people are resorting to hi-fi records (RCA-proclaimed) to demonstrate the tonal development in the Möller instrument. Ernest White's recitals on the new Möller pipe organ at the Church of Saint Mary the Virgin in New York City present a competent program of organ literature which will be appreciated by students and by those who enjoy properly registered organ music. The recording is tasteful and well balanced. (RCA Victor LPM-...)

London Records: Romeo et Juliette

London Records has a triumph in this three-disc...

[continued on page 62]

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951
18

More than a Downbeat

The director of the University of Michigan Bands gives more information of value in the organization of college bands.

[Photograph across page width: A large aerial or stadium photograph of the University of Michigan Marching Band on a football field. The band is arranged in a circular formation with radiating spokes, forming a pattern described as a "Spider Web." Players in uniform are visible forming the concentric rings and lines. Spectators are seen in the stands at the far side of the field. Yard-line numbers are visible on the turf: 40, 35, 45, 50, 45, 40, 35, 30 along the bottom of the photo.]

University of Michigan Marching Band Forming a Spider Web

by William D. Revelli

PART II

Continuing with the listing of the conductor's assistants, we have:

I. Assistant student manager
He will assist the student manager in all capacities delegated by the conductor. This post is usually awarded to a Junior, since he will be given an opportunity to serve a year as apprentice, and if worthy, will succeed his superior.

(II) Equipment Manager, who has the following duties:
1. Maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all band equipment.
2. Upon directive from the conductor, one week before the opening of the fall term, requisition all uniforms from cleaners and have them delivered to the uniform room. Check all items and confirm the list with the conductor.
3. Issue all necessary equipment to qualified band members and insure that they are returned.
4. Be responsible for the movement of all band equipment for all rehearsals, drills, and engagements.
5. Maintain a neat and orderly instrument storage room.
6. Report immediately any damage or loss of instruments to the conductor.

7. At Drill Field: Two days prior to first drill:
(a) ask custodial to line drill field (3 yards intervals)
(b) check public address system
(c) move two towers to 50 yard line—one on each side of field
(d) check with conductor on transportation of hand members and instruments to the drill field.
8. At Stadium:
(a) check band's location in stands
(b) check podiums—both sides of field
(c) check public address system
(d) check yard markers
9. Upon completion of the football season call all marching band equipment, instruments, uniforms and accessories. Check these against previous inventory.
10. Advise conductor of all necessary replacements and repairs.
(IV) Two Assistant Equipment Men, who assist the equipment manager as directed by the conductor.
(V) Librarians—senior or graduate students
1. Maintain a complete and up-to-date inventory of the band library
2. Catalogue, process and file all scores and parts as designated by the conductor.
3. Insert all scores and parts in folios as designated by the conductor.
4. Distribute and collect all folios at rehearsals and engagements of the band.
5. Maintain the library in a neat and orderly manner.
6. Supervise copying staff in the copying and duplication of band scores as directed by the conductor.
7. Advise conductor of library needs, such as parts, folios, filing materials, storage cabinets, etc.
8. Collect all folios at conclusion of marching season and check against previous inventory.
9. Advise conductor of all necessary additions and replacements.

(VII) Assistant Librarians—required for efficient function of the department. We have four at Michigan: they assist the librarian in the areas mentioned above, and as directed by the conductor.
(VIII) Script Writer and Announcer
This staff member is appointed on the basis of experience, personality, voice, appearance and his ability to
(Continued on Page 58)

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951
19

(End of transcription.)

Descriptions of non-textual images:
- Left-page portrait: A black-and-white head-and-shoulders photographic portrait of Dr. Paul N. Elbin. He is a middle-aged man, wearing a dark suit and tie, facing slightly to the left with a neutral expression.
- Right-page photo: A black-and-white, elevated/stadium photograph of the University of Michigan Marching Band on a football field. The band members form concentric circular patterns with radial lines, creating a spider-web-like formation across the field. Yard-line markers and players on the sidelines and spectators in the stands are visible.
Simple Approaches to Choral Conducting

An experienced
choral director speaks plainly
concerning the responsibilities and
duties of those engaged in the choral field
by JOHN F. KYES

(John F. Kyes is music critic of the Worcester (Mass.) Gazette and program annotator for the Worcester Festival which he has attended regularly for the past 29 years. He has been active also as a choral director.—Ed. Note)

CHORAL SINGING is on the upswing. This most ancient and honorable form of musical expression has found new powers to charm the singers themselves, and to draw greatly increased audiences.

One could rather casually dismiss this development by attributing it principally to the efforts of a few highly gifted conductors, and in particular to those fervent agencies headed by Robert Shaw and Fred Waring. Happily, however, the movement is by no means so limited, and is making itself felt in many ways much closer to the “grass-roots.” Where choral singing is seen as the answer to a very definite local need, methods are being devised and fine results secured, even with rather ordinary singers.

I have been impressed in recent seasons by the a cappella choirs from comparatively small and obscure religious colleges. Some of these are deliberately halfway across the country. Their brand of singing would indicate unusual vocal powers and carefully selected personnel. Instead, here are young people who are training to become organists and choir leaders, or directors of religious education. Their vocal cords are ordinary, but their devotion to religious music is unusual. The results reveal the choral singing, linked to a valid driving force, is one of the most potent of the human arts, and has by no means as yet attained its full stature.

Cheered by these favorable symptoms, one could lean back complacently and wait for a generation, assured that these young people and many other agencies will see to it that choral singing develops along sane lines. But why wait? Idealism is not the best propellant for growth. The basic principles of choral singing and conducting are not a patented formula, passed down from father to son. Any singer, any leader, if honestly inclined to appraise his true position and possibilities, can increase his individual usefulness and can much to forward the cause of choral singing as a whole.

To understand the present spotty choral conditions, one must comprehend the changes which have taken place in musical teaching during the past few decades. In high school forty years ago, the boys who liked to sing were grouped into a chorus. No effort was made to acquaint us with the history of music, the lives of composers, nor much less the simple facts about chords and keys and harmony. We just sang. Here and there, a child popped up who could play the piano for us. He “took lessons,” was different. Neither we nor our supervisors dreamed that we needed to know a little about the piano, or that the other child, the pianist, needed to know something about singing. We were friends, but separated by walls of blindness. Only a few of us had the double interest, the double opportunity, and learned about music as a whole.

School bands and orchestras were then the rule in our infancy. With the phonograph and radio came a sensitizing of the public ear, and the wave of interest in orchestral music brought great changes, even in some of the public schools. Young people knew more about musical instruments. “Music appreciation” became a school course, not a vague term. School singing made advances, too, but in only a few cases did the art of singing become taught in the full and intelligent manner achieved by orchestral instruction.

Our choral singers and conductors of today are the product of these many different gradations and combinations of training. We arbitrarily assume that they possess certain knowledge, certain viewpoints. In many cases, it is just not so. Upon present and would-be choral conductors rests the great burden of understanding and of leadership. To any choir singers who read this, I would voice one earnest warning: Do not undertake to reform your leader. He needs most of all from you loyal and obedient service. The uses of principle hereinafter explained are the sure prove your worker knows as a singer. Be very slow to assume or reveal that you have knowledge the leader does not possess.

Upon leaders of choruses, I would urge the crying need of candor, of self-examination. Look back upon your first choir. Did you tackle this field from necessity or as the result of well-rounded training? Are you essentially a singer, an organist, a pianist, an organist, or by any chance a well-rounded combination of these? How much musical knowledge do you possess? How much of it do you manage to pass along to your fellow-musicians, without boring them? What are you doing to broaden your own outlook and abilities?

Two extremes will serve to sketch the wide extent of the problem. On the one hand, we have the leader who is 100% singer, and who has been drafted to lead choirs. His every motion and thought pertains to singing, and the poor accompanist for whom he has a sorry time of it is indeed trying to fit in a few notes on the piano or organ. At the other extreme, we have the trained pianist or organist who is assumed to be qualified thereby to direct a choir. He is likely to think in terms of musical forms, and the singing is just a part of the total effect. He expects by pressing some button, as it were, to elicit a certain amount and kind of tone, treating his choir as he does his stops and keys of his organ. That singing is in many respects an organized set of human beings with certain needs and limitations, does not occur to him.

In between these extremes are leaders who have vast theoretical stores in their work, or who permit laziness to plague the labors of their singers. These, everyone should know, may find few inner resources of leadership. Singers cannot be trained or understood in such choirs. Let us emphasize some things which are rudimentary.

Choral leaders need personal standards. These can (Continued on Page 57)

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 20


SCHUMANN'S Prophet Bird

A Master Lesson
by GUY MAIER

(This is the first of a series of lessons on familiar piano pieces in which Mr. Maier introduces “comments” by the composers on the interpretation of their compositions. Any relation, historical in fact or accidentally, the similar titles is purely fictional. Next month's lesson will be on Chopin's Nocturne in B-flat minor, Op. 9, No. 2.—Ed. Note)

THE FIFTEEN-year-old girl's teacher had helped her acquire a bright, well-controlled finger technique. Teacher knows that since so much music is built on broken chords, pianists must have thorough grounding in them; so she drills her students especially on Pages 34-42 of “Thinking Fingers” (Book 2), stressing light finger tips in the practice of all broken-chord exercises. One of the pieces she assigns for practical application of these chord shapes is Schumann's Prophet Bird, which contains quantities of patterns like these:

[Three short musical-staff examples appear here illustrating broken-chord figures.]

to be played with delicate, feathered touch.

So today, our fifteen-year-old pianist has practiced the Prophet Bird “featheringly” for quality and minute rhythm, yet, as her hands fell into her lap as she played it through, she dropped her head down and cried, “Oh! Why? Because this piece frustrates me—it's just so cold!”

“Well,” she sighed resignedly, “try again. Better luck, perhaps”—but it came out then thicker and more unbirdlike with the second time through. She cried harder this time; but suddenly jumped as a deeper, trilling voice from back of her chair said, “Oh, Fraulein, don't feel so bad. You really know the notes and technique of this piece very well, but you just don't know what the piece is about, do you?”

Startled, she wanted to say “Whoooo are youuuuu?” But she wailed instead, “No, I don't! Do you know what it's all about? What in the world does that funny title, Prophet Bird, mean? And that chorale in the middle of it? And that crazy end? Oh, I just can't take it . . . boo-hoo-hoo,” etc.

“May I sit here for a little while, please?” he in Robert Schumann who composed the piece. I listened to your practicing it and rejoiced to hear someone who is so serious about her music and who really wants to re-create the composer's thought. So I had to drop in on you for a chat.

“You see, all of us who are called ‘Romantic’ composers, Chopin, Liszt, Mendelssohn, etc., are inveterate dreamers. When I was young I was supposed to be the wildest dreamer of them all. Yet I didn't compose the Prophet Bird until later in life, long after writing many other less-known piano pieces. It is one of eight ‘Forest Scenes’ (Opus 82). I think the others in the set are just as dreamy as the ‘Bird.’

“We romantics did not like exact titles for our music, so we often gave our compositions vague mood names like Preludes, Impromptus, Intermezzos, Nocturnes, Carnival Scenes. When I wrote these little ‘Forest Scenes’ I was engrossed in the life of St. Francis of Assisi and wanted to compose some tender and sensitive trifles—Forest Scenes—music of the woods, the birds, the saints and simple folk.

[Small block of musical notation appears here, illustrating the opening motif and a chorale-like passage.]

“Whenever throughout the woods permeates the sound of St. Francis singing softly to the accompaniment of his tiny organ, the birds listen reverently—then as St. Francis departs and they hear him no more, their preacher again announces the same little original text (passage) in B-flat major (measures 9-16) — then suddenly the birds desist, and the preacher announces the simple original text (passage) measures 17-18.

“To repeat the text once again (measure 9) in B-flat major the birds get restles. From all sides they protest. What a racket they can make! But the bird preacher persists and you hear small stutters of the upright (measures 9-16) — then suddenly the birds desist, and the preacher again announces the simple original text (passion) measures 17-18.

“Whenever throughout the woods permeates the sound of St. Francis singing softly to the accompaniment of his tiny organ, the birds listen reverently—then as St. Francis departs and he is no more, their preacher again rejoices with long sustained note—then suddenly the birds begin to sing the little original text (passage) measures 17-18.

“When you play the piece, think that you and St. Francis are right in the midst of a Sunday morning bird sermon. The choir will sing the short phrases and the preacher's prayer announces his ‘text’ (first four measures) beginning in G minor, then ending in B-flat major, then in the next four measures he says practically the same words (do some preachers!) but now in D minor and F major. As he starts to repeat the text once again in B-flat major the birds get restles. From all sides they protest. What a racket they can make! But the bird preacher persists and you hear small stutters of the upright (measures 9-16) — then suddenly the birds desist and the preacher again announces the simple original text (passage) measures 17-18.

“Now, will you play some of the piece again for me?” requested Robert Schumann. “I'm sure you will hold all those first dotted eighth notes slightly longer; then play the thirty-second notes very rapidly pianissimo (just imagine that you are playing [Continued on Page 57])”

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 21

Descriptions of non-textual images on these pages:

- Left page: Under the headline “Simple Approaches to Choral Conducting” there is a large pale-gray rectangular area occupying the upper-left column; it appears to be a design element or a placeholder with no readable text inside it.

- Right page upper right: A small portrait photograph of a man (presumably Guy Maier). The black-and-white portrait shows a middle-aged man with receding hair, wearing a suit and bow tie, looking slightly to his left with a composed expression.

- Right page, interspersed with the article: Several short musical-staff examples (printed excerpted measures) appear. These include illustrative broken-chord figures and a small chorale-like passage shown on two staves; the examples are intended to demonstrate the “feathered” broken-chord patterns and the chorale theme discussed in the text.

- Decorative elements: Horizontal rules separate the article title and byline on the right page; small section headers and continued-page notices are set in small caps at the foot of each page.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

MATERIAL FOR BEGINNERS—Part IV

We are presenting this month the list of material for beginners as recommended by Ardella Schaub, one of the best known and most progressive piano teachers in the Los Angeles area. Miss Schaub's is the fourth and last list of such material as recommended by four different teachers. The first list appeared in the July issue. I am grateful for the co-operation of these four excellent teachers which has made it possible to present these suggested lists. As introductory to her recommended list, Miss Schaub wrote the following paragraph on choosing material for beginning students:

"In teaching children we are gradually discovering what is hard and what is easy, so I think we should use the following principles in choosing our teaching materials: (1) The key of C is not necessarily easier than other keys; (2) a real tune of five-finger patterns is easier than a manufactured tune using two fingers; (3) when beginning to co-ordinate the hands it is easier for the left hand to play complete chords rather than to attempt unrelated single notes or parts of chords; (4) Pieces having a wide range of the keyboard are not only more attractive to elementary students but they are actually easier; (5) It is easier to play an arpeggiated accompaniment than to attempt two-voiced counterpoint; (6) Material that can be easily analyzed into patterns is better for elementary students; (7) Education is a matter of gradual growth, so there must be much experience on one level before going on to the next; in other words, each book or piece does not necessarily have to be harder than the last one; (8) The physical characteristics of a book are important, so when I look over material I am always delighted to find something which has uncluttered pages, appropriate illustrations, and notes that are neither too large nor too small, because such material is a joy to both teacher and student."

Here is Miss Schaub's list:

For pupils of six or seven:
"Beginning at the Piano"—Frost (Boston Music Co.). This is the "C" approach.
"The Berry Basket"—Supplementary to the above (J. Fischer).
"Car-Tune-Land"—Raibinet (Boston Music Co.). You will like the "clean" look of this book.
"Music Lessons Have Begun"—Fletcher (Boston Music Co.). The "C" approach.
"Tunes You Like"—Nevin (Schroeder & Gunther). A chord approach to be introduced after a few weeks of study. The chords are learned by rote, the teacher pointing out what part of the chord is being used.

For beginners of eight, nine, or ten:
"At The Piano"—Frost (Boston Music Co.). The "G" approach.
"Course For Pianists"—Weybright (Mills Music Co.). Contains work pages with supplementary work books available.
"Joy Green Piano Course"—Chappell (Chappell Co.). Good for boys; popular and folk material used.
"Young America at the Piano"—Burrows-Ahearn (Birchard). This is the "chord approach" and may be used in combination with any other "methods."
"The Young Explorer at the Piano"—Burrows-Ahearn (Willis). Note and chord approach slightly more difficult than the above. There is also a supplementary workbook called "Let's Write and Play."
"Top Tunes in Big Notes"—Eckstein (Carl Fischer). Supplementary material to any first book, consisting of melodies with chord accompaniment.
"The Piano Hour"—Webber (Fischer). Similar to the above but for older students or adults.
"Microkosmos I"—Bartók (Boosey and Hawkes). A study of modes for the serious student to be used in connection with other beginning material.

Please remember that any of the materials listed in these four issues may be obtained through the Presser Company in case you do not find them at your local music store.

K. G.

Conducted by KARL W. GEHRKENS,
Music Editor, Webster's New International Dictionary, assisted by Prof. Robert A. Melcher, Oberlin College.

WHAT IS CLASSICAL MUSIC?

I used to think I knew the meaning of the word "classical" when applied to music, but now I am not so sure. I used to think that Bach's music was classical, but now I see it referred to as pre-classical. I thought also that Stravinsky was a modern composer but now I see him referred to as "classical" and I am confused. I have always liked ETUDE because it did not give in for what is called "popular music" but now I'm not sure that I understand what the word "classical" actually means. Will you enlighten me?
Miss E. H., Ill.

I don't blame you for being confused. The word "classical" is used to denote so many different things that it has come to mean different things to different people. No one knows for sure what it means when some particular person uses it. In a general sense "classical" refers to the music which has stood the test of time and which, because of its intrinsic worth, continues to be performed and admired. Thus, the music of Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, etc., is classed as classical in the great majority of reference works. Much of the music of the nineteenth century—Mendelssohn, Chopin, Liszt, Wagner—also comes within the scope of what is generally understood as classical, while certain types of modern music, notably that of Stravinsky and Bartók, are included by many competent writers as a part of the classical tradition. There is, however, no magic word about it. What is important is the quality of the music itself and whether or not it has that enduring interest which places it above the ephemeral and the merely fashionable. Study will show you more and more clearly what "classical" music has stood the test of time. K. G.

ABOUT CLEFS

I am puzzled by the use of the tenor clef in vocal music. (Continued on Page 49)

TEACHER'S ROUNDTABLE

MAURICE DUMESNIL, Mus. Doc., quotes from Schumann and makes more comments on practicing away from the keyboard.

SCHUMANN SAID . . .

"You must apply yourself to become gradually acquainted with the important works of the great masters."

One of the most amazing things in this day and age is the almost total ignorance of the majority of students—either private or in universities and colleges—as regards the admirable repertoire of masterworks. Repeatedly I have questioned some of these students and have found that they know nothing of Bach's Mass in B minor, or the St. Matthew Passion, nor of the greater oratorios, the great piano literature, or the Suites for solo cello, or the Brandenburg Concertos. Yes, they know "Bach," a few "Inventions" perhaps, and the "Air on the G string," but they do not know the great choral and orchestral works which would mean so much if they once were studied seriously. Too many people seem to be content with a superficial acquaintance and the popular life of the day, while neglecting the masterpieces which form the permanent treasures of music.

I could go on forever and mention many great works by Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Mendelssohn and Brahms with their wealth of chamber music ranging from sonatas for various instruments to quintets and sextets, string quartets, symphonies and piano concertos. The study of these works will give a sense of proportion and will teach students how music may unfold itself logically and emotionally over long spans. It is the surest means to develop taste, judgment and a real musical imagination.

There is another side to the matter. Even if a student is happily familiar with many classics he must learn to analyze and to live with them—this is the task of the teacher: to lead the pupil into the living heart of the music and to impart an understanding which will endure and not merely give the appearance of artistic accomplishment.

AWAY FROM THE KEYBOARD

"Referring to your reply to Miss D.R.S., Maryland, may I also make a contribution on the subject of practicing away from the piano?" writes Charles H. Young of Upper Montclair, New Jersey. "I use a dozen or more such exercises daily and have been doing so for some years. I believe that just about anyone who plays the piano, especially adults, would benefit from those exercises. I have no apparatus and the whole lot takes about five minutes a day.

"The one exercise that would benefit most students consists of the following: Interlace the fingers with the palms together, the wrists up, the elbows close at your side. Repeat the exercise with the second finger of each hand raised and the rest of the fingers closed. Then open the thumbs and the second finger of the left hand, interlace the fingers again and repeat the previous exercise with the third finger raised. Continue in this manner until the fifth finger is raised. The exercise is good for the arms as well as for the hands; the palms and wrists must be kept in the same position. Hold for a count of several seconds. Repeat each exercise twice.

"I can give you one more example of the good effects of such exercises. When I was hospitalized for some weeks I practiced these exercises constantly and when I returned to my piano I found my finger action much improved and my muscles stronger than before."

Congratulations to Carl Edwards for his wonderful stamina which permitted him to overcome his handicap. May he continue to derive joy from his playing for many years to come.

SHORT AND SNAPPY

One young would-be composer whose talent doesn't measure up to his egoism sent me the manuscript of a piano sonata and a published letter. "Let me know soon," for I have other irons in the fire," he said in an accompanying note.

The answer came promptly:
"Remove Irons. Insert Sonata."

NEVER GIVE UP!

"In the year 1910 I met with an accident in which I lost my left arm," writes Carl Edwards of 107 A Street, Santa Rosa, Calif. "For years I could not play, but I practiced in mind. I would lie in bed and visualize the music, arranging the pieces mentally over and over until I could 'play' them. I used mainly Chopin Preludes, some Mendelssohn Songs without Words, Rubinstein's Melody in F, some Kreisler numbers, and many others in the classical field. I am a great lover of music and I attended many concerts here and in San Francisco. Playing the piano is my hobby and I love it!"

Congratulations to Carl Edwards for his wonderful stamina which permitted him to overcome his handicap. May he continue to derive joy from his playing for many years to come.

AWAY FROM THE KEYBOARD

"Referring to your reply to Miss D.R.S., Maryland, may I also make a contribution on the subject of practicing away from the piano?" writes Charles H. Young of Upper Montclair, New Jersey. "I use a dozen or more such exercises daily and have been doing so for some years. I believe that just about anyone who plays the piano, especially adults, would benefit from those exercises. I have no apparatus and the whole lot takes about five minutes a day.

"The one exercise that would benefit most students consists of the following: Interlace the fingers with the palms together, the wrists up, the elbows close at your side. Repeat the exercise with the second finger of each hand raised and the rest of the fingers closed. Then open the thumbs and the second finger of the left hand, interlace the fingers again and repeat the previous exercise with the third finger raised. Continue in this manner until the fifth finger is raised. The exercise is good for the arms as well as for the hands; the palms and wrists must be kept in the same position. Hold for a count of several seconds. Repeat each exercise twice.

"I can give you one more example as an example of the good effects of such exercises. When I was hospitalized for some weeks I practiced these exercises constantly and when I returned to my piano I found my finger action much improved and my muscles stronger than before."

SHORT AND SNAPPY

One young would-be composer whose talent doesn't measure up to his egoism sent me the manuscript of a piano sonata and a published letter. "Let me know soon," for I have other irons in the fire," he said in an accompanying note.

The answer came promptly:
"Remove Irons. Insert Sonata."

NEVER GIVE UP!

"In the year 1910 I met with an accident in which I lost my left arm," writes Carl Edwards of 107 A Street, Santa Rosa, Calif. "For years I could not play, but I practiced in mind. I would lie in bed and visualize the music, arranging the pieces mentally over and over until I could 'play' them. I used mainly Chopin Preludes, some Mendelssohn Songs without Words, Rubinstein's Melody in F, some Kreisler numbers, and many others in the classical field. I am a great lover of music and I attended many concerts here and in San Francisco. Playing the piano is my hobby and I love it!"

Congratulations to Carl Edwards for his wonderful stamina which permitted him to overcome his handicap. May he continue to derive joy from his playing for many years to come.

(Continued on Page 59)

22

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

23

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

Description of non-textual images:
- Left page portrait: A small black-and-white head-and-shoulders photograph of a middle-aged man wearing glasses and a light-colored suit; he is resting his chin on his hand as if in thought. The caption credits Karl W. Gehrkens and mentions Robert A. Melcher, Oberlin College.
- Right page photograph: A black-and-white photo of a man standing outdoors beside a building, dressed in a suit and hat, holding a small item in his hand (possibly a stick or umbrella). Caption identifies him as Maurice Dumesnil, Mus. Doc., with a note that he quotes from Schumann and comments on practicing away from the keyboard.
Here is the full transcription of the visible text on the two-page spread, followed by descriptions of the non-textual images.

Transcribed text:

[Left page, small inset caption to right of portrait]
Here is an intimate and colorful word picture of the personality of the internationally known organ builder, Ernest M. Skinner.

by Alexander McCurdy

[Main headline]
An Organ Builder's Opinions

[Article text — left page]
CLARION is the name of a 4-foot organ stop of trumpet-like tonal brilliance. It is also the name of the small town in Pennsylvania where Ernest M. Skinner was born almost twenty years ago. Thus the man destined to make his name a familiarly respected one all over America and in Europe as well has been connected, by association of ideas if nothing else, with organ-stops since his cradle days.

There are a few great men in every field, and in organ-building few would dispute the eminence of the man from Clarion, Pennsylvania. For many years the Skinner Company has occupied a foremost place in the ranks of American organ manufacturers. There are Skinner instruments in every state in the union, and many have been exported abroad.

Much of the history of organ-building in this country is to a large extent the history of Ernest M. Skinner, the great American organ builder. Although fortune in a way finds excellent personalities, it was largely Mr. Skinner who laid the foundation for the company. Younger men have carried on the work so admirably begun by him.

For some reason or other, Mr. Skinner from the very start of his career in organ building secured contracts to build fine instruments in conspicuous locations. The advertising value of such installations brought other commissions. In this way Mr. Skinner was able to build distinguished instruments. He did good work and charged high prices for it. I suspect that his fees were consistently the highest paid to any organ builder.

In return, Mr. Skinner prided himself on giving satisfaction for value received. When some wealthy donor wanted to give a pipe organ to a church or college, Mr. Skinner generally made it a personal assignment for himself to see that every organ was placed. Numerous instances could be cited of his inventing a brand-new stop (now a total of 34) to go into some particular installation, so that the sound of that organ would be unique, unmatched by any other instrument in existence.

Mr. Skinner always maintained high standards of organ building. Nothing but the choicest seasoned lumber was used in his organs; the construction of his instruments shows the superb craftsmanship of his workmen became a byword in the industry. He spared no expense to make sure his instruments were right in every detail. It was always a delight merely to sit at a Skinner console; a marvel of fine woodworking accented by ivory-headed draw-knobs (which from the first Mr. Skinner preferred to the more modern domino tabs). Aside from the aesthetic pleasure it afforded, a Skinner console was so comfortable it almost played itself.

Mr. Skinner built colorful tone into his instruments because he listened to them with a musician's ear. I don't know of a single Skinner organ that is tonally nondescript. The brilliant instrument which he built for St. Thomas' Church in New York was a marvel of the profession for many years. Other deservedly famous organs built by the firm are those in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, St. Bartholomew's Church, the Fourth Presbyterian Church in Chicago, Williams College, Princeton University, Yale University (Wooster Hall), the University of Michigan, the National Cathedral, Washington, D. C., the Rockefeller Chapel, University of Chicago, and many others.

Mr. Skinner is devoted to the music of Richard Strauss, particularly "Thus Spake Zarathustra" and "Der Rosenkavalier." He admits these works not only as music but as ideas of what his organs ought to sound like. He admired an instrument which sounded "orchestral," not in the sense of having imitative pseudo-orchestral tonal effects but in the sense of producing life, like the playing of a great orchestra under a great conductor.

He hates organs which merely play notes. In fact, one might go farther and say Mr. Skinner dislikes notes! Some of his observations on organ-playing are original and arresting, such as this one: "It is just as important to take one's hands off the keys as it is to put them on." It goes without saying that the taking-off of hands should be done (Continued on Page 64)

[Page footer left]
24

[Bottom center footer across pages]
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951

[Right page header, top right]
VIOLINIST'S FORUM

[Article headline]
The Ernest Bloch SONATA

A descriptive analysis

by HAROLD BERKLEY

[Small caption under right portrait photo]
Ernest Bloch

[Article text — right page]
THERE CAN BE little question of Ernest Bloch's standing in the music world of today. Musicians everywhere accept him as one of the most significant of living composers. In a way his position is unique. Estimating his work, one cannot compare him to any other composer or classify him with any school. His Hebraic blood and strong racial consciousness have given to him an expression new in music. There have been other outstanding Jewish composers—Meyerbeer, Rubinstein, Mendelssohn, for example—but they wrote in the Latin or the Occidental. Bloch's music is essentially Semitic, in the widest sense of the word, and he has never made any effort to mold his thought in accordance with Western trends. Deeply-read classicist in the works of his prime—"Three Jewish Poems," the "Three Psalms," the String Quartet and the Piano Quintet, the "Schelomo" cello and orchestra, the Viola Suite, and the Violin Sonata—one hears the language of the Old Testament in all its color and richness.

But in most of these works, and certainly in the Violin Sonata, the idiom is not merely racial; it is more universal, more elemental than that—it is the language of all peoples. There is little sensuousness, and no sentimentality in its music, yet it is passionate to a popular appeal. It is often the expression of a torn or tortured soul, but it never becomes hysterical. Rather it is the expression of passion and tension and pain governed by a great intellect and highly organized art.

The Violin Sonata is in a large part tonal, though there are many moments when a definite key is clearly heard—notably, and with great effect, at the end of the magnificent coda of the third movement. Some critics have been harsh on the frequent use of diminished sevenths in this work. Yet, as Bloch uses them, they do not weaken the texture; rather they seem to add tension and urgency.

Writing of the Sonata, the late Paul Rosenfeld, a discerning critic, said, "We owe to it a musical experience of an intensity which does not arrive very often in life. We owe to it a feeling of inner life which we can only compare to those aroused in us by the first hearing of 'Die Meistersinger,' of 'Pelleas,' of the 'Sacre'." [sic]

The power, the intensity and innate vitality of this Sonata make it, in my opinion, one of the two or three greatest works for violin composed in the present century.

Why, then, is it not more often heard? I cannot leave a listener indifferent; he can only feel, at the most, that it is "interesting," that he may feel reverent admiration or cordial dislike, but he cannot help being moved by it.

Can it be that our concert violinists are afraid to put it on the program? Are they afraid to put it on the program? It is not only technically difficult, but the demands it makes upon the imagination are unusual. The violin part is often declamatory and the piano part is of such variety and richness as to render the work a true duet, not a concerto with mere accompaniment.

There are few slow movements in modern literature which equal, in quality and intensity, the slow movement of this Sonata. After the bitter disillusion of the first phrase, a transition of yearning leads by a sequence of quiet and simple chordal phrases to the main theme. The theme is simple and singing; yet its poignancy is unforgetable, and it is constantly varied. At the height of its emotion the first subject re-enters, and then a long passage of fragments prepares the way for the great cadenza-like passage for the violin which begins four measures after 2. Over the humming of the piano, the ascending phrase suggests a blind aspiration toward something felt but unknown. The succeeding phrase, where the piano breaks into surging arpeggios and a violin of descending octaves, gives a feeling of disappointed achievement. The following passage, however, is optimistic in its bravado and dignity. The broad G string melody sounding below leans toward turbulent arpeggio figures, but the essential nobility of Nature, A brief, frenetic climax shatters this mood for a moment, but it quickly dies down in a transition passage almost beyond compare in the violin literature.

This transition leads to the second main theme of the movement. For all its lyric quality and emotional content this theme is not entirely memorable. Yet it must be played with the greatest intensity of feeling; the listener must be made to feel the ravages of time, the succession of repeating motives, the recurrence of the principal motive in different guises and with varied emphasis. Much of the principal theme is repeated and etiolated by instrumental effects and by much of the movement is given to the violin and is the chief, almost the only vehicle of expression in the movement.

After the second subject a cadenza-like passage for the violin leads to the recapitulation of the theme and to a broad harmonic progression that gives a feeling of large dimensions. The movement closes with a return of the opening material in a form of spiritual resignation.

[Column break; next column continues]
The second movement is a scherzo of sort, but in Bloch's hands it becomes a concentrated outburst rather than a mere romp. Its rhythmic thrust and accentuation are often the very essence of the movement. The music seethes and drives on with violent episodes opposed to calmer, sardonic moments. This movement is full of surprises, both harmonic and rhythmic, and it demands a violinist of iron control and a pianist of tremendous rhythmic precision.

The third movement is the finale: a great Rhapsodic Allegro with a noble theme and an inevitable feeling of destiny. The movement is in a way more tonal than the rest of the work, and the conclusion is spacious and triumphant but tinged with melancholy. The coda of the third movement, with its magnificent final measures, is one of the most moving pages of modern violin literature.

It is difficult to speak of the Sonata without reference to its interpretative requirements. The performers must grasp its religious intensity as well as its dramatic force. The violinist must have a great range of tone color and must be able to vary his attack from a thin, cold chant to a full orchestral roar. The pianist must be no less resourceful, and the two artists must be of one mind in their conception of the work.

There are obvious reasons why the Sonata has not become a repertory piece of constant performance. It is long, exacting, and not always easy of comprehension. It will always remain, however, a work of permanent value and one which repays repeated hearings. For those willing to confront it may be, to quote Rosenfeld again, "a musical experience of an intensity which does not arrive very often in life."

(Continued on Page 51)

[Page footer right]
25

[Bottom center footer across pages]
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951

Descriptions of non-textual images:

- Left page large portrait (upper left): A large black-and-white studio portrait of an older man seated in profile toward the right. He is shown from about the waist up, wearing a dark suit and tie, with his hands clasped together in his lap. The lighting is soft, highlighting his face and hair; the background is plain and darker, providing contrast to the figure. The portrait occupies roughly the top third of the left page.

- Right page small photograph (upper left of article): A small rectangular black-and-white photograph showing a man in the act of playing a violin. The figure is shown from the chest up, angled slightly, with the left arm raised holding the violin and the right hand drawing the bow. The image is close-cropped and has a concert or studio photo quality.

- Right page small portrait (upper right of article): A small black-and-white head-and-shoulders portrait of a middle-aged to older man, shown looking slightly to his left (viewer’s right). He wears a suit and tie, has a receding hairline, and the photo is inset in the article near the headline.

If you would like, I can provide a higher-accuracy character-by-character verification of any particular paragraph or line from the image.
Highlighting High Fidelity

A non-technical discussion
of high fidelity—what it is—
how it works—and suggestions concerning
the kind of equipment to buy.

by ZELLA MACK

WHAT IS "high fidelity"? You have no doubt been hearing this phrase—or "hi-fi"—frequently. Newspapers have devoted whole sections to high fidelity equipment. Sound shops have advertised in news papers, magazines, and over the air. You have been invited to "Audio Fairs" held in the larger cities. The phrase has also been bandied about and used not too legitimately by some. So, you may well ask: "What is high fidelity?"

Technically, "fidelity" is the degree to which the radio receiving set reproduces at its output the signal or wave form received at its input end. When you listen to your radio, or play a record, you should not expect an aesthetically perfect reproduction of the original sound. If, however, the music you hear is faithful to a high degree to the original music, you have "high fidelity." How high a degree? Engineers have now improved their products to a degree sufficiently marked and above anything heretofore available to the public that the term "high fidelity" now distinguishes this superior equipment.

The reproduction of the signal with fidelity depends upon four major components: the sound player, the amplifier, the loudspeaker, and the listening room (AM, FM, or record). Each of these is the component that gives you a radio.

Today you can buy these components separately, and for less money obtain a radio and record player superior to a "complete" set. By assembling your own set you can effect a saving. However, those with the know-how may prefer to buy one of the many packaged "kits" on the market. There is considerably less expense in this way. The more you know about the equipment, the more likely you are to get good reproduction. The more you know about the equipment, the more likely you are to get good reproduction. The units may be installed in a book shelf, a chest, a chairside piece, or closed door. If you own your home, this feature alone will have an appeal. Custom installation is economical of space, and has unlimited possibilities. If you prefer separate cabinets, they may be purchased ready-made from a wide selection, in designs and finishes to suit the most exacting tastes. Further, many of the speakers are sold in cabinets designed for the speaker, and leave nothing to be desired in eye appeal. Those of more Bohemian tastes may prefer not to house the equipment at all but to string it around the house, as is often done. Or if you do wood-working, you may desire to make your own cabinet.

A good home system should be well planned. Although, generally speaking, the more money, the higher the fidelity, the price of each individual component is not the criterion of the quality of the completed set. A balanced system, or one in which the basic components are of equal quality, is of prime importance. For instance, there is no point in buying an amplifier capable of reproducing perfectly a wide range of frequencies and feeding into a loudspeaker that can't reproduce the full range. The ultimate judge as to how much you should pay should be your ear. Admittedly, however, your pocketbook may also be the final judge.

A tuner is your radio, that is, the part which selects the station and separates it from other signals at the receiving antenna. Its most important qualities are sensitivity and selectivity. Sensitivity is the ability to detect distant stations; selectivity is the ability to separate two stations close together. It is important to remember that tuner performance depends upon the front-end circuits of the set and the type of detector used. A good tuner will give you quiet, driftless operation with good selectivity. There are a number of good tuners on the market, with a wide price range—say $25 to $175.

It is the purpose of the amplifier to increase, to magnify, the small current from the pickup (needle), or of the tuner, to a desired level. The amplifier copies the smaller current into bigger currents, with the same, or nearly the same, pattern of fluctuations. This process has been perfected to a high degree.

The amplifier's power is measured in watts (10–50 watts). You should bear in mind, though, that the volume of sound does not increase in direct proportion to the power in watts. For each unit of sound we hear, it is the total actual power must be doubled. Therefore, you should never try to work an amplifier at its maximum power, forcing it to pass large currents, because of increasing distortion. The chief value of this greater power, then, is its "emergency" use to take care of the peaks which occur in all types of music and add to the fidelity of the music.

A really "top" power amplifier is relatively expensive. However, good amplifiers are available to fit any purse, and here again it depends upon the degree of perfection you insist upon whether you will find the cost justified. Amplifiers may be purchased from $50 to $350. For added perfection, the more expensive amplifiers include a separate preamplifier with elaborate tone control.

More essential to high fidelity of the music than the inclusion of the very highest and very lowest tones are freedom from noise and distortion. The bugaboo of high fidelity is hum, which can be a buzz or rumble heard from the speakers. This hum usually originates in the amplifier. Before you buy, listen carefully for hum. If the unit cannot be turned on and operated without objectionable hum, don't buy it.

You should also look for a phonograph pickup that is flexible in its tracking forces and has low mass. Don't ignore details, such as the smoothness of the tone controls, the tracking force, the anti-skate, the condition of the record player turntable bearing, and the cartridge alignment. All of these have small but cumulative effects.

If you buy a portable set, be sure that the pick-up and the tone arm are well balanced and adjusted. If you buy a console, ask how easy it will be to remove the mechanism for servicing. A pickup with adjustable tracking force makes it possible to use different cartridges and styli for different records. A diamond stylus, properly aligned, will give longer life to your records. Remember that the condition of the record surface is often the limiting factor in fidelity.

Speakers are of many designs. Some are full-range, some are multiple-unit with separate drivers for low, mid and high frequencies. A good speaker should be efficient and have a uniform polar pattern. Cabinets affect speaker performance by controlling resonances and by influencing dispersion of the sound. Placement of the speaker in the room is of great importance; corner placement usually increases the bass.

More essential than very high power is that the amplifier be free from distortion. Distortion of any kind is noticed immediately and cannot be removed by later adjustments. If you are in doubt about a particular piece of equipment, ask for a demonstration with a record you know well.

There is a great deal of comparative advertising in this field. Beware of claims that cannot be substantiated. The only test is listening. If possible, bring along records that you know well and listen critically. Do not be impressed by flashy furniture or by the number of knobs on the set; concentrate on the sound.

The listening room itself affects the quality of reproduction. Rugs, draperies, furniture and wall coverings absorb or reflect sound and change the balance of the reproduced sound. For critical listening, a room should have controlled reverberation and be free from extraneous noise.

If you must economize, spend most of the money on the speaker and amplifier. A cheap loudspeaker or a poor amplifier cannot be made to give high fidelity no matter how expensive the tuner or the pickup. Good sound begins at the loudspeaker and amplifier.

A final thought—good high fidelity is cumulative. Good components used together will give satisfaction; one excellent component cannot completely compensate for deficiencies in other parts of the system. Use your ear as your final judge.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

No. 110-40341

Quatrième Valse Oubliée
(Forgotten Waltz No. 4)

This is the first publication in ETUDE of this recently discovered work. Liszt wrote four compositions entitled Valse Oubliée, the first three having been published in Europe between 1881 and 1884. Aside from the typically Lisztian brilliance of the piano writing, there are some points about this piece worthy of note. Harmonically, Liszt was an innovator. The ending of this work is particularly interesting in view of the suggestion of bitonality, i.e., the superimposition of the dominant seventh chord over the tonic note; and especially in view of the fact that this chord does not resolve as one might expect. However, this is as it should be when one considers that in the entire piece there is not one single point of tonic resolution; from first note to last, the music is kept in a constant state of harmonic tension through the use of diminished chord progressions and various forms of the seventh chord.
Grade 6

FRANZ LISZT

Allegro

PIANO

p scherzando

simile

sempre piano

cresc.

[Musical notation staves with measures of piano music, including various dynamic markings and articulation: p, scherzando, simile, sempre piano, cresc., f, ff. Numerous notes, triplet groupings, slurs, stems, rests, ties, grace-note turns and other standard piano notations appear across the staves. Fingerings and small editorial markings are present above and below some notes.]

Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

International Copyright Secured

Page numbers: 26 (left), 27 (right)

Description of non-textual images:
- Left page background: a faint, slightly transparent portrait photograph of a woman is visible behind the article text on the left page. The portrait occupies the upper half of the left page and shows the woman's head and shoulders; features are subdued and overprinted by the article columns, making the image low-contrast and ghostlike.
- Right page musical score: the right page is primarily a full piano score for "Quatrième Valse Oubliée" by Franz Liszt. It contains multiple systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs), with many measures of intricate piano writing. There are dynamic markings (p, f, ff, cresc.), tempo marking "Allegro" at the top, expressive indications such as "scherzando," "simile," and "sempre piano," slurs, accents, triplets, and dense chordal passages near the bottom of the page. The score spans the page from top to bottom with barlines, measure numbers implicit in the notation, and additional small editorial markings.
Extracted text (as clearly visible on the pages):

sempre forte
Quasi presto, ma pomposo
poco ritenuto
ff
G.P.
dim. poco a poco
pp
perdendosi
8va
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954
28
29

Additional visible textual elements: numerous small fingering numbers (1 2 3 4 5) printed above and below notes throughout the score; several occurrences of the numeral "8" or "8va" above staves indicating octave transposition.

Non-textual image description (detailed):

- A two-page spread of piano sheet music (printed score). Each page contains multiple systems of grand staff (treble and bass clefs joined by brace), dense with musical notation: many chords, runs, beamed notes, ledger lines, slurs, ties, accents, staccato marks, and dynamics.
- Left page (page 28) has several systems with heavy chordal textures and ornamental runs; a bracketed or dotted line "8va" marking appears above some upper staves; fingerings are printed throughout; a prominent boxed or bracketed phrase marking appears near the middle; dynamic markings include ff and sempre forte; the tempo/style marking "Quasi presto, ma pomposo" appears about one third down the left page.
- Right page (page 29) continues the music with similar dense chordal writing; a "G.P." (general pause) is printed near the top right; several systems show repeated chordal figures; near the lower middle the text "dim. poco a poco" is printed; the end of the piece shows quiet dynamics "pp" and the direction "perdendosi" above final chordal measures.
- Both pages show the publication imprint "ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954" centered at the bottom margins and the page numbers 28 (left) and 29 (right).
- The overall look is of a mid-20th-century engraved piano edition, with crisp black noteheads on cream paper and standard editorial markings.
Bourrée

The ETUDE is happy to present this unusual contribution by Nadia Chilkovsky. Each of these two pages presents two systems of notation,—one long familiar and another only now emerging as a potent factor in the dance. This second system, as described in an article by Miss Chilkovsky (see page 15), is a way of putting on paper (graph paper in this case), the "score" of the movements of a dance whether for a solo dancer or group of dancers. In this way, the choreographer fixes his or her ideas (just as the composer does) for study, rehearsal and, last but certainly not least, as a complete record.

(From French Suite No. 5)
JOHANN SEBASTIAN BACH

Allegro (♩ = 96) M.

dim.     p

cresc.

f

dim.

measures 1 to 10

measures 11 to 18

measures 19 & 20

measures 21 to 24

measures 25 to 30

Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.                30

International Copyright secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

ETUDE - OCTOBER . . .               31

Description of non-textual images:
- Two-page spread of sheet music for a Bourrée. The upper half of both pages contains standard musical notation: treble and bass staves with notes, rests, slurs, dynamics and articulation marks (including dim., cresc., p, f). The notation is printed in black on a beige paper background and spans several systems across the pages.
- Beneath the musical notation, across the lower halves of both pages, there are two parallel systems of graphical notation/dance-score diagrams:
  - On the left page there are three small schematic diagrams showing simple dancer-path shapes: a shallow V-shaped line labeled "measures 1 to 10," a circular/oval path labeled "measures 11 to 18," and another small arc/line. To the right of these are several tall vertical graph-like columns composed of stacked black blocks, arrows, curved braces and small numerals—these represent choreographic timelines or spatial positions aligned with musical measures.
  - On the right page there are three corresponding small schematic diagrams showing paths: a shallow V labeled "measures 19 & 20," a U-shaped arrowed path labeled "measures 21 to 24," and a shallow V labeled "measures 25 to 30." To the right of these are similar tall vertical graph-columns of black block notation with arrows, braces and measure numbers, aligned to indicate movement patterns over time.
- There is a small torn paper flap at the bottom right corner of the right page partially obscuring some printed text.
- Page numbers appear at the bottom corners: 30 at the left and 31 at the right. The overall look is that of a 1950s printed music journal with both conventional musical score and a graphic choreographic "score" displayed together.
Grade 6

Etude in G-sharp minor

FRANCISZEK ZACHARA

Presto (d. = 112)

6

From "Twelve Master Etudes, Op. 29" by F. Zachara. (no. 86531)
Copyright 1940 by Theodore Presser Co.

British Copyright secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

32                                                                               33

cres.

Description of non-textual content:
Two facing pages of printed piano sheet music. Each page contains multiple staves with treble and bass clefs, dense notation of notes, beams, arpeggios, many finger numbers printed above and below notes, dynamic markings (p, f, etc.), slurs and phrase markings, hairpins (crescendos and diminuendos), octave markings (8va), and bracketed groupings. The left page is slightly creased and has a small tear at the bottom center; the right page has a vertical crease near the inner margin. The overall appearance is of an older printed music book with light age-toning around the edges.
No 110-40318
Grade 3½

Walking

WILLSON OSBORNE

Allegretto (d = 144)

PIANO

mf
simile
mp
Ped. simile
a tempo
poco rit.
f
simile
poco rit.

Copyright 1951 by Theodore Presser Co.
International Copyright secured
ETUDE OCTOBER
34

Gigue

(from Suite XIII, in B Major)
G. F. HANDEL

Lively
mf non legato
R.H.
L.H.
mf
f
mf
L.H.
f allargando

From "Basic Piano for the Music Educator and Classroom Teacher," by I. Cheyette and J.C. Shake. (410-41023)
Copyright 1951 by Theodore Presser Co.
International Copyright secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1951
35

Description of non-textual images:
Two facing pages of printed piano sheet music. The left page is titled "Walking" and contains multiple systems of piano grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs) with notes, rests, slurs, pedalling marks, finger numbers above and below many notes, dynamic markings, and articulation marks. The right page is titled "Gigue" (credited to G. F. Handel) and likewise contains multiple systems of grand-staff notation with fingerings, dynamics (mf, f, etc.), "R.H." and "L.H." indications, and varied articulation and tempo markings. Both pages show printed measure lines and bar numbers, and the inner margin near the gutter has some slight wear and a small tear at the bottom right of the left page. The paper has light aging/toning and faint fold/crease lines.
Deep in the Forest a Little Brook Flows
SECONDO
ELLA KETTERER

Allegretto (♩ = 120)
PIANO
mf
f
mp
mf
mp
rit.

About a Ship at Sea
SECONDO
ELLA KETTERER

Andantino (♩ = 126)
PIANO
a tempo
p rit.

From "Share the Fun," by Ella Ketterer (140-41023)
Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.
36
International Copyright secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

Deep in the Forest a Little Brook Flows
PRIMO
ELLA KETTERER

Allegretto (♩ = 120)
PIANO
pp
mp
pp
pp
mp
p
rit.

About a Ship at Sea
PRIMO
ELLA KETTERER

Andantino (♩ = 126)
PIANO
mp
p
a tempo
mp
rit.
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954
37

Non-textual image description:
Two facing pages of printed piano sheet music (a duet edition) photographed as a flat spread. The left page carries the second-player ("Secondo") parts and the right page the first-player ("Primo") parts. Each piece is set on standard grand-staff systems with treble and bass clefs, time signatures and bar lines. The top piece on both pages is titled "Deep in the Forest a Little Brook Flows" with tempo marking Allegretto (quarter note = 120). The music shows repeated arpeggiated and flowing melodic figures, slurs, dynamic markings (mf, f, mp, pp, p), finger numbers above and below many notes, phrase markings and occasional ritardando markings. The lower piece on each page is "About a Ship at Sea" with tempo marking Andantino (quarter note = 126). It contains rolling accompaniment patterns in the left hand and a lyrical right-hand melody, marked with dynamics (mp, p), a tempo indications and slurs. Page corners show small page numbers (36 at bottom left, 37 at bottom right). Across the bottom center is small publisher/copyright text and the line "ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954." The paper shows slight age toning and the binding seam is visible at center. The notation is clear, with standard western music symbols (notes, rests, clefs, dynamics, slurs, fingerings).
The Lord's Prayer

Adapted from St. Matthew 6:9-13                    After J. S. BACH
                                                  Arr. by Margaret Jones Hoffmann

Slowly, with dignity
mp

VOICE
1. Our Fa-ther who in heav-en art, All hal-low'd be Thy ho-ly name, Thy king-dom come, Thy will be done On earth as it is done in heav'n. Thy king-dom come, Thy will be done, On earth as it is done in heav'n.
2. Give us this day our dai-ly bread, For-give our debts as we for-give, And lead us not in paths of sin, But bring us out of e-vil, The king-dom and the pow'r are Thine, For ev-er, A-men.

PIANO
OR
ORGAN
mp

From "Sacred Songs for Junior Choir", selected and arranged by M. J. Hoffmann [412-41007]
Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.                    International Copyright Secured

Early Will I Seek Thee

S. Ibn Gebirol                                  MAX HELFMAN
Trans. G. Gottheil                              Arr. by Margaret Jones Hoffmann

Andante
mp

VOICE
1. Ear-ly will I seek Thee, God, my ref-uge strong; Late prepar'd to meet Thee With my eve-ning song.
2. What this frail heart dream-eth, And my tongue's poor speech, Can the e-ven dis-tant To Thy greatness reach?

PIANO
OR
ORGAN
mp

Broader

Though un-to Thy great-ness I with trembling soar, Yet my in-most think-ing Lies Thine eyes be-fore.
Be-ing great in mer-cy Thou wilt not de-spise Praises which till death's hour From my soul shall rise.

From "Sacred Songs for Junior Choir", selected and arranged by M. J. Hoffmann [412-41007]
Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.                    International Copyright Secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

(page number) 38

Chant de Carillon

Hammond Registrations
(a) 00 7713 000   (b) 00 7713 000   (c) 10 30 5444 000

Andante tranquillo                                   WILLARD SOMERS ELLIOT

MANUALS
pp
Bells
pp

PEDAL

Sw. Fl. 8' & 2'
mp   mp Ch. Clar.
mp
Ped. 8' Ped. soft 16' & 8'

Bells
mp    poco accel.

Allegretto

mp
Ped. 53

Full Organ

fff    fff
Ped. 63

From "Twelve Compositions by American Composers for Organ with Bells" [413-41009]
Copyright 1953 by Theodore Presser Co.                  International Copyright Secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

(page number) 39

Description of non-textual imagery:
- Two-page spread of printed sheet music (photograph of an open music book). The left page contains two vocal/keyboard pieces laid out with treble and bass staves, lyrics under the vocal staff, dynamic markings (mp, pp, p, f, etc.), tempo indications ("Slowly, with dignity", "Andante", "Broader"), and publisher credits at the bottom. Music notation includes clefs, barlines, notes with stems and beams, rests, slurs, and standard engraver's symbols.
- The left page upper piece ("The Lord's Prayer") shows two numbered verses with hyphenated syllables aligned under notes. The lower piece ("Early Will I Seek Thee") shows two verses and an additional unnumbered stanza beneath labeled "Broader".
- The right page is an organ composition titled "Chant de Carillon" with three-system spacing: manuals indicated at the top staves and pedals below. It includes registration suggestions (a small boxed area labeled "Hammond Registrations" with three registration codes), stop indications (e.g., Sw. Fl. 8' & 2', Ch. Clar.), and performance markings ("Andante tranquillo", "Allegretto", "poco accel.", "Full Organ"). Notation shows multiple independent staves (likely three manuals and pedal), with many dynamic changes and florid passages; there is also a printed instruction "Bells" near some passages.
- Both pages show small printed page numbers (left 38, right 39) and typical signs of an older printed music periodical (slight aging/tonal paper texture, narrow margins).
Andante 16 & 4'
molto rit.
pp
©pp
Bells & solo Fl. 8'
Fl. alone

Andantino Ch. Oboe 8' or Cornet
PP Sw. Fl. 8'; 4'; & 2'
Ped soft 16; 8; & 4'

mp
mp
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1951
40

Adagio grandioso
Bells 8' & 4'
pp
cresc. poco a poco
pp

Full Organ

Ped. 32
molto rit.
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1951
41

Description of non-textual image content:
A two-page spread of printed musical score (organ/piano style) occupying almost the entire pages. Each page contains multiple grand-staff systems (treble and bass clefs) with numerous musical notations: notes, beams, rests, slurs, ties, dynamic markings (pp, mp, fff, etc.), articulation marks, key and time signatures, ledger lines, and pedal lines. Rehearsal boxes and registration indications appear next to some systems. The left page shows more lyrical, flowing lines and sustained whole-note pedal tones; the right page progresses to denser chords and a more grandiose passage with fuller chords marked "Full Organ." Page numbers 40 (left) and 41 (right) are printed in the lower outer corners; the publication credit "ETUDE - OCTOBER 1951" is centered in the footers.
No. 110-40830
Grade 2

The Little Shepherdess

EVERETT STEVENS

Wistfully; rather slowly

PIANO

p    mf

p    mf    rit. p

Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.
International Copyright secured

Grade 2½

Playing Tag

JOHAN FRANCO

Allegro (♩ = 132)

PIANO

mf leggiero

simile

p    mf    p    mf    p

From "Three Piano Sketches," by J. Franco. [110-40316]
Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.
International Copyright secured
ETUDE - OCTOBER 1954

42

come prima
simile

No. 110-40294
Grade 4

Sprightly Spooks

LOUISE CHRISTINE REBE

Lightly (♩ = 112)

PIANO

mp    p    mp

1st time    Last time    pp    Fine

A little faster

mf    "p    L.H.
mp    L.H.

D.C. al Fine
rit. e dim.    P.R.H.

Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.
ETUDE OCTOBER 1954
International Copyright secured

43

Description of non-textual images:
- A two-page spread of printed piano sheet music with staves, treble and bass clefs, musical notes, rests, slurs, finger-number markings, dynamic markings (p, mp, mf, f, pp), phrase markings, tempo markings, and editorial directions integrated into the notation. The left page contains two short pieces ("The Little Shepherdess" above and "Playing Tag" below) with multiple systems of notation and pedal/phrasing marks. The right page contains the piece "Sprightly Spooks" with several systems, repeat brackets, first- and last-time endings, and indications such as "come prima," "simile," "A little faster," and "D.C. al Fine." The pages show a slight gutter in the middle where the book is bound; page numbers 42 (left) and 43 (right) appear at the bottom corners. The paper is slightly aged/ yellowed and the printed music is in black ink.
No. 110-40339
Grade 1

Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat

Nursery Rhyme
Arr. by LOUISE E. STAIRS

Moderato

PIANO

Puss-y cat, Puss-y cat, where have you been?  I've been to Lon-don to look at the queen;

Puss-y cat, Puss-y cat, what did you there?  Fright-en'd a lit-tle mouse un-der her chair.

Puss-y cat, Puss-y cat, what did you there?  fright-en'd a lit-tle mouse un-der her chair.

Puss-y cat, Puss-y cat, what did you there?  fright-en'd a lit-tle mouse un-der her chair.

Puss-y cat, Puss-y cat, where have you been?  I've been to Lon-don to look at the queen;

Puss-y cat, Puss-y cat, what did you there?  Fright-en'd a lit-tle mouse un-der her chair.

Copyright 1954 by Theodore Presser Co.
44

International Copyright secured
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

Alleluia

(No. 212-0061)

OTTO LINSING

SOPRANO
ALTO
TENOR
BASS
PIANO (ad lib.)

Sing His praise to the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord.
Sing His praise to the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord.

D.C. (ad lib.)

Printed in U.S.A.
All Rights Reserved
45

Description of non-textual images:
- Two-page spread of sheet music. Left page is a piano arrangement of the nursery rhyme "Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat" arranged by Louise E. Stairs. Right page contains a choral piece titled "Alleluia" by Otto Linsing, printed vertically and rotated relative to the left page.
- Left page details: multiple grand staves (treble and bass clefs) for piano with standard five-line staffs, barlines, and multiple systems stacked vertically. Musical notation includes treble and bass clefs, quarter notes, eighth notes (including beamed eighths), half notes, slurs (phrase markings curved over groups of notes), tie markings, dynamic marking "mf" near the left margin, and fingering numbers (small numerals) printed under some notes. Lyrics are printed under the vocal line syllabified with hyphens (e.g., "Puss-y", "Lon-don", "Fright-en'd"). Systems repeat the same melodic material several times.
- Right page details: multiple choral staves labeled Soprano, Alto, Tenor, Bass, plus a piano part marked "ad lib." Staves contain vocal lines with lyrics repeated across measures. Musical notation includes treble and bass clefs, stems, beams, chord symbols (stacked notes for harmonies), vertical alignment of SATB parts, and a D.C. marking. The choral systems are printed in narrow columns and rotated so the text and staves run vertically along the page.
- General physical description: The pages show slight aging/toning of paper and a visible center gutter (book spine). Page numbers 44 (left) and 45 (right) appear at the bottom corners. The printing is black on off-white paper.
RESULTS COUNT!
(Continued from Page 14)

I do solemnly swear by that which I hold most sacred:
"That I will be loyal to the profession of music and just and generous to my colleagues, who are its members.
"That I will lead my life and practice my art in uprightness and honor.
"That whatever house I enter, it shall be for the good of all to the utmost of my power, I holding myself aloof from corruption and temptation of others.
"That I will exercise my art solely for the benefit of my students and will give no music to my students except that which will raise their standards in the most beautiful forms of the art in the broadest sense of the word.
"That I will make myself a messenger of fine music to all whom I meet.
"That I will not be influenced by 'fads' and the 'sugars fast' of mistaken iconoclasts.
"These things I do promise and in proportion as I am faithful to this oath, may happiness and good repute be ever mine—the opposite if I shall be false."

Do you plan students' recitals far enough ahead so that your programs, never pretentious, may be well-balanced and represent your best work? Pupils' recitals are, after all, the teacher's best means of demonstrating results. During the past month one of the outstanding music schools connected with a great university sent the writer a bound book composed of a remarkable collection of programs of student recitals. In it there was also another (mimeographed) book of proposed recitals scheduled to take place during the following season. All the programs had been selected and assigned by the performers months ahead of their performance dates. The head of the music department, known for his superior work, just where his pupils were going, as did the pupils themselves.

The teacher should be careful to plan programs ensuring the correct variety, proper sequence, natural climax and best artistic balance. Floor decorations of the studio, the proper lighting, the best printing of programs, cordial welcome of guests, and other details are important, but they are secondary to what the students are prepared to demonstrate at the recital. A studio recital must always be marked by charm, artistic dignity, freshness and brightness, else it may become insufferably stupid and dull.

Have I followed my pupils' work after they left me? Have I the sense of staying with one's art rather than one's making? and

Many teachers fail to capitalize upon their results. When a pupil graduates or leaves he is soon forgotten. If the teacher had had any experience in manufacturing, publishing or selling a product, he would have a respect for results. Results build reputations and businesses. Manufacturers of all kinds of products go to great lengths to check and analyze their products for years after they have left their hands. They constantly seek to improve their products to secure better results. They are compelled to do this to meet competition. The methods of rival manufacturers are submitted to the microscopic scrutiny of costly research departments. New and fabulously expensive methods are installed. New methods of sales approach are introduced. New offices and new systems are devised and done as a matter of routine to discover the best methods and, if possible, new ones leading to better results.

"But," says the teacher, "of what interest is that to me? I am only a little teacher, with a relatively small class." This grandiose comparison is ridiculous.

Very true, but even in a smaller field the principle is the same. If you are not continually alert in improving your teaching activities by reviewing your results, you will not be able to meet the competition that comes to all, and your classes will dwindle. We have continually reviewed the work of smaller colleges with excellent music departments, but which paid scant attention to students after graduation. There is usually a murmur or less feeble effort upon the part of the alumni associations to keep in touch with the members so that they may be approached for gifts and money contributions. Often one of our wise musical friends has just remarked that the need for an editorial upon the subject is more urgent than ever. Music teachers who take a small view of their opportunities and potentialities are still far too often willing to travel in a rut. How does one get out of a rut? All of our great psychologists since William James have insisted that most people use only a fractional part of their mentalities actively. Fired by ambition and determination, countless teachers who have had a good fundamental preparation have extended their God-given resources and risen in life to an extent they never thought possible prior to making a new and regular effort. Try repeating to yourself daily: "I have not used more than 30% of my potential talents and ability. If I employ at least ninety percent I should attain that which I have desired for years." Thousands have found this formula amazingly effective.

Therefore the music teacher intent upon making results count must always remember the words of Cervantes — "Don Quixote": 'The proof of the pudding is in the eating.' THE END

[Signature scribbled across upper right corner of the page]

"The Baldwin is unequaled in Concerto works with orchestra or in recital"
CHARLES MUNCH

To the truly great artist, his piano is as personal as his signature... and is chosen for its superlative interpretation of his music. The world's most renowned pianists choose Baldwin not alone for the Beautiful Baldwin Tone but for the integrity of craftsmanship that makes each Baldwin piano a masterpiece. This is the genius of Baldwin: for the artist, a Baldwin Concert Grand is always his piano, answering with the same clear, vibrant voice whenever his fingers touch its keyboard into life.

At home, as on the concert stage, that beautiful Baldwin Tone is a constant joy and source of pride. For perfection in performance is the most potent invitation to perpetuate the most perfect impression in the minds of audiences. For the artist, the beauty and musical perfection of your piano, choose Baldwin.

THE BALDWIN PIANO COMPANY
Dept. E-104, Cincinnati 2, Ohio

BUILDERS OF: BALDWIN GRAND PIANOS • ACROSONIC SPINET PIANOS
HAMILTON VERTICAL PIANOS • BALDWIN AND ORGANSONIC ELECTRONIC ORGANS

Baldwin

[Page footer, centered across the gutter]
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

[Left page – musical notation and repeated hymn phrases]
(Left-hand page consists primarily of multiple systems of musical staff notation with repeated lyric lines beneath the staves. The recurring text under the music includes lines such as:)
Praise the Lord for his power and love
Praise him
Praise him for his power and love
Praise the Lord for his power and love
Praise him for his pow'r and love
Praise him
Praise him for his pow'r and love

(These phrases are repeated across the page beneath many of the staves. Page number at lower left: 46)

[Right page bottom right corner page number: 47]

[Photographic image description]
A black-and-white photograph at upper right shows a middle-aged man in a dark suit standing at a podium, holding papers and speaking. The image occupies a tall rectangular area; above it is a large handwritten signature or scrawl. Beneath the photo is the quoted endorsement about Baldwin pianos attributed to Charles Munch.
up to $1000 WORTH
of SHEET MUSIC
protected for a lifetime!

THE BEST INVESTMENT you can make in filing and
finding convenience, and in complete protection for
your sheet music. Thousands of satisfied
TONKabinet owners endorse that statement.

You file music quickly, easily in the exclusive
TONKabinet drawer-trays. Every shelf is al-
ways at your finger tips. You find the music
you want in just a few seconds. And it's all
protected against dust, dirt, damage and loss.
Many modern and period styles for homes,
schools, bands, etc. Capacities from 1,500 to
22,500 sheets of music. Right made by makers
of nationally advertised TONK tables. Ask
your dealer, or write to:

WRITE FOR
booklet, samples of drawers and
order, illustrated price list and
special catalogue for music retail
stores. Also our exclusive
MFG. CO., 1971 N.
AGO. CO. 1971 N.
Phone: Ave. (Dept. 6)
These special drawer-trays almost bond
your music --- never warp!

TONKabinetS
for sheet music

Style 450 shows holds about
2750 sheets of music (approx.
14x11) which opens at rear.
Walnut, Mahogany, Blond.
W/hoop or door front finish.

FRANZ LISZT

QUATRIEME VALSE OUBLIEE

(Forgotten Waltz No. 4)

PUBLISHED FOR THE FIRST TIME ANYWHERE THIS
WORK OF THE GREAT COMPOSER APPEARS ON PAGE
27 OF THIS ISSUE OF ETUDE. ALSO, A VERY INTERESTING
ARTICLE ON LISZT AND THE LISZT COLLECTION IN THE
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS IS PRESENTED ON PAGE 9.

You may add this historic first publication to your
own piano music collection by ordering now.

THEODORE PRESSER COMPANY
BRYN MAWR, PENNSYLVANIA

CATALOG NO. 10-40341 PRICE $1.00

THE DANCE ART DEVELOPS A NOTATION

(Continued from Page 11)

Opera until, during the Nazi regime,
he and some of his pupils moved
to England where he lives and works
at the present time.

With the co-operation of Mr. Laban
and his students in Europe and un-
der the sponsorship and guidance of
the Dance Notation Bureau in New
York, this system, which the Bu-
reau has named Labanotation, has
emerged as a unified, universal
language of the dance which can be
taught to all dance students through-
out the world.

While this system of recording
dance is independent of musical
notation, there are features common
to both. Labanotation is written on
a staff. The staff is vertical and is
read from the bottom upward. Meter
is marked off as in music by bar
lines drawn across the staff. Move-
ments of the right and left sides of
the body are placed on the staff to
the corresponding right and left of
a center line. An analogy might be
made to the middle C on a music
staff and octaves above and below
it. Just as placement of a note on
a musical staff determines its sound,
the particular placement of a sym-
bol on a dance staff represents the
part of the body which performs
the movement. The basic symbols
represent the direction of a move-
ment by their shape. Their relative
length determines the time or dura-
tion of performance of a movement
while their shading indicates the
level (high, middle, low in vertical
space). There are additionally sym-
bols which describe complexities and
subtleties of movement, indicating
accentuation, textural variation and
elements of style. As in music, the
basic direction symbols may be com-
bined in many ways. Musical com-
position may result from using sim-
ple inversions of the C Major triads
or from complex manipulation of
sound based on the twelve tone scale.
In dance, too, the same basic sym-
bols can be used to set down a sim-
ple folk dance or more subtle work.
There are already predictions that
the dancer of the future will study
Labanotation as a normal part of
his preparation just as the music
student learns to read and write
music along with his efforts to mas-
ter his particular instrument. The
dancer of the future will shop for
dance scores just as the musician
buys sheet music, etc. To add point
to this prediction it is perhaps note-
worthy that in Philadelphia alone
there are already several hundred
dance students ranging in age from
6 to 50 years and including dance
teachers who have been studying
dance notation during the past two
years. These dance students have
come to accept Labanotation quite
casually. They come to class pre-
pared with leotard, slippers and no-
tation book. They do not enroll in
a special class in notation, but they
learn by using it in the course of
their dance training. It is a fact
that they recognize the significance
and validity of a dance alphabet.

I recall the surprise with which
the youngest students greeted my
comment that Mr. Laban had begun
to think about his system of notation
some 40 odd years ago, and therefore
is still fairly new. "Forty years!"
they asked, "How come? How come?
Did my teachers know about it?
Why did they not teach it to their
students?" Although these students
are only one forth of forty years
and the tempo of contemporary in-
ing has made them sensitive to new
ideas. They reflect an current im-
tience to accept or reject new trends.

How can such neglect be ex-
plained to young dancers who were
thrown into an age of invention and
frantic search for new fields of con-
quest? Can we say that there is not
time enough in a crowded schedule
to learn Labanotation? Perhaps we
are conditioned to the pressures of
time or to the lack of it to the point
where we actually lose track of the
meaning of time. Man's recent con-
cept of time, space and energy is a
tribute to his colossal will to live
and to build and to Frankfurthers
which threatens his very existence.
We often mislay our perspective. We
cite an example, compare the time
it takes to learn a new musical scale
with the time needed to perfect the
playing of it; or compare the few
moments required to learn that

is the ballet fifth position for the
feet as written in Labanotation with
the years of practice which it takes
to achieve a perfect fifth position.
A tiny part of man's twentieth cen-
tury inventive genius concerned it-
self not with seeking out a better
and swifter self-destructive path
trial, but with a means for preserving
some of his dreams and hopes. The
enormous eruption of creative energy
in the dance during the latter half
of the nineteenth and into the task of
developing a form which would con-
tain without confining the contem-
porary attitudes toward time, space
and condition in which we live. The
task was a prodigious one, and, as
every dancer knows, artist of pro-
digious talents arose to meet the
challenge. Great pioneers like Is-
adora Duncan, Ruth St. Denis, Mary
Wigman, Martha Graham, Doris
Humphrey and others made initial
and contributions to the develop-
ment of contemporary dance) no
less important and these are impor-
tant aspects of our dance heritage.
I only wish we could add more of
the detail of the contribution of
other numerous teachers of contem-
porary time. One must study the com-
plete movement in order to form
a series of skilled performers and

an evaluation of it by profes-
sional critics—but the work itself.
In broad perspective we know that
these artists who choreograph or
dance today are the past of tomor-
row. Let them record their work and
they will live forever. A dance is,
today, a fleeting thought, a moment
of intense excitement, and engages
a stage. Notate it and it is neces-
sarily a means to committed his story
—some on an open book shelf,
available to all who love to dance.

Because of its dynamic character,
the lunge of the dance as we
know it today—whatever the style—
is direct ratio to the acceptance
of Labanotation. Now is the
time to record the work of great
composers and choreographers.
While there are still dancers among
us who know at first hand the work
of Isadora Duncan and Fokine, the
teaching their works will provide the
needed literature and mate-
rials for present day and future
dance students the world over.

An objection has been advanced
that the discipline of learning and
using notation might dull or slow
down the creative process and elimi-
nate the spontaneity of dance. Cer-
tainly Labanotation is a discipline.
Dance technique and composition
are also disciplines. A discipline
such as Labanotation requires not
only a knowledge of its material but
an understanding of how to use it.
As a matter of pure self interest the
study of Labanotation offers to stu-
dents an opportunity to become a
literati artist, just as it affords the
dancer an approach to the body of
then record in!

THE END

(Readers interested in the dance
are advised the following material
is available for study: "Three
R's for the Young Dancer," Chil-
dren's Dance Notation Bureau, N.Y.C.; "My First Dance Book,"
Chilcory (Dance Notation Bureau,
N.Y.C.) and "Labanotation" (New
Directions, N.Y.C.)—Ed. Note.)

THE STORY
(Continued from Page 13)

seventy-five years ago.

From the very beginning the
American Masters of Music Teach-
ing followed. Association rested that a
national Association realized an in-
ternational position of dance instruction
which has been the aim of the Ameri-
can dance movement from the begin-
ning. The annual meeting at which a
number of prominent writers of
dances have appeared has been of
vital importance in the develop-
ment of the dance.

music profession, the papers that
had been read at the annual meet-
ings. At the reorganization of the
Music Teachers National Associa-
tion in 1906, it was felt that the
material presented at the annual
meetings was too important to be
consigned for preservation to the
relative inaccessibility of a maga-
zine, and so the Messenger was dis-
continued and the Association re-
turned to the book type of publica-
tion, but in a more substantial form
than ever before, with the "New
Series" of "Proceedings." Articles
on various phases of music written
by such famous personages as Frank
Damrosch, Peter C. Lutkin, Edward
Dickenson, O. G. Sontag, and many
others appear in Series I, the 1906
"Volumes of Proceedings," and illus-
trate the scholarliness and thought-
fulness that have marked the meet-
ing and activities of the Association
from that time.

(To be continued next month)

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
(Continued from Page 22)

In one edition of a well-known work I
find the tenor part marked N. and in the
lower, and this doesn't make sense.

G. H., Miss.

The three clefs in ordinary use are
the G clef, the F clef, and the C clef.
Of the three, the G clef is probably
easiest to understand because it al-
ways marks the fourth line as stand-
ing for the first F below Middle C. The
G clef similarly marks the first
above Middle C, but it is some-
times used for the tenor part.
The C clef is a little harder to
understand even though its use is
entirely logical except in the one
instance which I will explain a little
later. Actually, the C clef should al-
ways appear on a line, and this line
is always Middle C. The clef seems
to move around and is often called
"a movable clef," but actually the

clef always remains the same and it
is the lines that change. To illustrate
this I suggest that you take a piece
of ordinary paper, draw eleven lines
on it, place the C clef on the mid-
dle line. There will now be five lines
above and five below—the Great
Staff. Now erase four of the top lines
and two of the bottom ones, and you
will have left a five-line staff with
Middle C on the fourth line. There
is a clef of the tenors and take a
another line from the bottom, and
Middle C is on the third line. The
clef seems to have moved, but actu-
ally it has not—the clef continues
to mark Middle C. The inconsistency
I referred to is that some years ago
a few publishers began to place the
C clef on the third space of a five
line staff, and write the tenor part
now disappeared. K. G.

Opportunities and
Better Income...

Positions Open

Interesting positions are open
everywhere. Schools and Col-
leges make it necessary for
every teacher to be equipped
for his work; Radio and TV
are calling for highly special-
ized training. Standardized
teaching makes competition
keen, even in small commun-
ities.

Are you a Busy Musician
and Ambitious?

A successful musician is al-
ways a busy one. It is almost
impossible for him to go away
for additional instruction; yet
he always finds time to
broaden his experience. To
such musicians our Advanced
Extension Courses are of
greatest benefit.

You Can Advance in MUSIC
thru Extension Conservatory

When you inspect our Sample lessons you will readily
agree that you can acquire new ideas for better teaching your
self as well as your students. You can become affiliated
with a school in existence over 50 years, recommended by
thousands of successful teachers, and be sure their con-
stantly studied methods, the new ideas and technical im-
provement will revitalize your work.

HOME STUDY In Spare Time

If you are ambitious to progress, to enjoy greater recog-
nition, and financial returns, you owe it to yourself to
investigate this great Home Study musical organization.
At very little cost and no interference with your regular
work, you can easily and quickly qualify for higher and
more profitable positions in music.

Diploma or Bachelor's Degree

We help you prepare more and prepare for bigger things in
the field of music. We award the
Degree of Bachelor of Music and the Associate or Bach-
elor's Degree you are ready to meet all competition.
Start now to revitalize your growth in Music.

Fill In and Mail This Coupon

UNIVERSITY EXTENSION CONSERVATORY
Dept. A-806, 200 S. Michigan Blvd., Chicago 16, Illinois.

Please send literature concerning the following:

Piano, Teacher's Manual Course
Piano, Teacher's Course
Piano, Teacher's Complete Course
Advanced Piano Course
Piano Teaching and Coaching
Harmony, Counterpoint
Public School Music Course—Elementary
Advanced Composition
Piano for Entertainer—Use of Chord System
Theory of Modern Harmony
High School Course for Public School Music Supervisors
Elementary Singing—Choral Conducting
Voice, Solo and Ensemble
Cornet—Trumpet
Clarinet
Saxophone
Flute
Oboe
Bassoon
Horn
Trombone
Violin
Cello
Double Bass
Banjo
Guitar
Mandolin
Accordion
Orchestra Playing
Band Arranging
School Orchestra Supervision
Popular Music—Dance Productions
Orchestration
Choral Arranging
Modern Piano
Dance Arrangement
Harmony—Advanced
Composition
Contemporary Music—Modern Form
Composition
Piano, Children's Course
Examination Questions and Requisitions
Complete List Musical Supplies
Other

Name_______________________ Age________
Street No.__________________ Adult or Juvenile
City__________________________ State___________
Are you teaching now? ______If so, how many pupils have you?_______
Do you hold a Teacher's Certificate? ______Have you studied Harmony? ______
Would you like to earn the Degree of Bachelor of Music? _______

University
Extension
Conservatory

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

48

(There is also small type near right column top not fully legible in scan)

49

(Description of non-textual images)
Left page: A photograph of a tall stackable wooden filing cabinet shown in perspective, with multiple thin drawer trays; below it an inset illustration shows an open drawer tray with sheet music files visible. Near the bottom left a large decorative serif headline FRANZ LISZT and beneath it a small musical subtitle QUATRIEME VALSE OUBLIEE (Forgotten Waltz No. 4). Right page: Large advertisement box titled Opportunities and Better Income... with bordered form and coupon for University Extension Conservatory, listing many music courses in small type. The central pages contain dense columns of printed article text and two small square dance notation symbols (simple geometric marks) illustrating notation positions.
go back to school with the finest in PIANO Publications!

Absolutely The First Name In Piano Methods!
THE MICHAEL AARON PIANO COURSE

The nation's most successful piano method! Acclaimed year after year as the method which best sustains the student's interest and enthusiasm for piano study.

Perfect Uninterrupted Sequence—Natural Progression
MICHAEL AARON PIANO COURSE Grades 1-2-3-4-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . each 1.25
MICHAEL AARON PIANO COURSE Books 1-2 (for Private, Group or Classroom) . . . each 1.25
MICHAEL AARON ADULT PIANO COURSE Books 1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . each 1.25
MICHAEL AARON PIANO TECHNIC BOOKS 1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
MICHAEL AARON DUET BOOK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
Send for FREE Thematic Circulars!

Newest Piano Book by GUY MAIER
(written with Herbert Bradshaw)
THINKING FINGERS. Volume Two
Essential exercises for the development of positional control and facility in Chromatic and Major and Harmonic Minor Scales, Broken Chords, and in Major, Minor, Dim., 7th, Dom. 7th and Augmented patterns. 1.50

3 Piano Publications by HAZEL COBB
PLAY FOR FUN
(written with Eugenia Robinson)
26 familiar songs arranged for piano. "Aunt Rhody," "Down in the Valley," "Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep," "Wayfaring Stranger" and other favorites. For beginners. 75

VARIETY AND SPICE FOR PIANO
"Fun in music" for youngsters. 11 piano pieces in popular styles, "boogie" and swing. Complete section on how to play and make "boogie" patterns. 1.00

RHYTHM
TO COUNT, SING AND PLAY
A practical method of training in rhythm with emphasis on the value of the normal swing of the allied and natural component of rhythmical piano playing. 75

2 New Piano Books by ERIC STEINER
ONE, FOUR, FIVE
At the beginning of his training the young piano student is taught to play familiar melodies in the key of C using simple chords thus increasing his interest and encouraging further development. 75

YOUR OWN HARMONIES
A natural follow-up to Steiners previous book. Teaches the student how to harmonize melodies with the three principal chords. 1.00

New Elementary Piano Folio By DAVID CARR GLOVER, Jr.
BOOGIE WOOGIE SCHOOL DAYS
Five studies in bright and bouncy swing — 1. GETTIN' UP BOOGIE 2. OFF TO SCHOOL BOOGIE 3. LUNCH-TIME BOOGIE 4. GOIN' HOME BOOGIE 5. FRIDAY NIGHT BOOGIE . . . complete . . . . 75

Newest Piano Book in the Modern Idiom!
MODERN MELODIES FOR POPULAR PIANO PLAYING
by MARVIN KANN
All-time favorite songs arranged for the early intermediate pianist. "Stormy Weather," "Sweet Lorraine," "All My Love," "Moonglow" and others illustrating modern rhythms and idioms. Drills, analysis, practice procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

MILLS MUSIC, INC.
1619 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.

HOW TO WRITE GOOD TUNES
(Continued from Page 10)

be said, however, that popular songs which remain in the ear and demand repetition, fall into two categories: those which merit repetition in their own right, and those which catch on as the result of some extraneous chance. Begin The Beguine is an instance of the second category. At the time the song appeared, nothing seemed to be more perfect than any of the other numbers that had been turned out in the later years. Some people tell me that the reason for the enormous success of "Begin the Beguine" was that it was used in a show which had long runs in London and in New York; it was played by many dance leaders, etc., and thus was popularized. I believe many songs are "made" in that fashion. They are not necessarily superior to other songs, but chance and association put them over. There are also many cases where songs are discovered by competent song-publishers who make them into hits by smart promotion. In other words, we must not imagine that great merit, intrinsic and innate, always explains the survival of a popular tune. Songs sometimes have a great deal of luck. But the songs which endure without dependence upon good fortune are always more interesting to study.

And the ideas shaped themselves into a full song without the first eight measures. I had to work my solution backwards to supply the start of what became I Love Your Face Before Me.

There are two points to avoid. The first is imitation—of style, success, anything. The other is writing outside the average range of the average professional voice, which is normally spans about twelve tones (The shortest-range hit song on record, I believe, is Blue Moon, written for the actress Jean Harlow who was not a singer. It moves from C to C, covering six tones.)

The best start for theatre work is not to wait for inspiration, and not to rush to Broadway. Find a song you think suitable for the musical form, the character. You must of course be willing to experiment with a variety of possibilities—and even if your work is not published, you will have done the best thing for yourself by creating a small "stock" of usable numbers of different types and moods. The idea is to make a number that will be accepted because it really "exists" as a musical statement. Even in the case of stage songs, it is often preferable to begin the song in one setting, for example, a popular ballad style, and then to adapt it to some other use. But there are two things which should be avoided. Do not "write to order" merely to meet a producer's wish. He may not be able to see the value of your song until he has heard it in some other context. And do not make the mistake of thinking that only the dramatic, spectacular song has a chance of success. Often the simplest things catch on.

Words are important. so are the title and the opening line. The title must say something about the idea of the lyric and the opening line must make the listener want to hear the next line. A good title is easily remembered; a bad title is a point of friction. But you must never start a song with the title unless it fits naturally as the opening line. Write for natural speech. You must be able to sing the words as you would say them. Nothing is more irritating than forced or affected diction. And be very careful of clichés. They are the junk of the lyricist. If you are stuck, try to write the bridge first rather than the chorus. The bridge sometimes gives the chorus back a necessary push and it may supply the missing ingredient.

A title that means something is a bonus. Words should be colloquial, direct, and emotionally honest. The more the lyric is rooted in common expression the better its chances. Yet remember that some lyricists have succeeded with highly literary texts, but it is rare. Most song-writers who have long careers are those who can, without compromising, speak the everyday language of love and life and yet say it freshly.

Every song should have a dramatic center. When this center is found, the rest of the song can be built around it. If you have no center, the song will wander. The center may be an emotional phrase, a musical phrase, or a turn of harmony. But make it strong and clear. Don't be afraid of repetition. Repetition is essential. The trouble with many newer songs is that they try to avoid repetition at all costs. If you hear a catch-phrase that you like, use it. Let it become your center and then let everything else point toward it.

As for harmony, do not be too fancy. The public likes clarity. The simplest chord progressions have carried the greatest songs. Yet novelty in harmony is welcome when it is natural to the melodic line. If you place a strange chord behind a melody note for which it is a natural sonority, you may have something that is refreshingly different without being bizarre.

For the writer who wants a career there is nothing like quantity. You must write a great many songs, and among them a few will be good. A man who writes one good song every year is more useful than the man who sits and perfects one song for five years. Keep making musical experiments; you will be surprised how many of them will develop into publishable work. The writer needs to develop his own voice; he must learn to trust his ear rather than his theory book. Then, too, regular playing of the instrument keeps the imagination fertile. When I find myself blocked, I play for a while and new ideas come. Try to write a little every day.

Finally, remember that the business of music is a business. You can be as original as you like, but you must also be practical. Keep copies of your songs, register them with the Library of Congress, and show them to people who can help you. A competent publisher can often make a song acceptable by proper arrangement and by placing it in the right hands. The writer who refuses to learn the commercial side of the music business may lose opportunities.

And last—this is most important—never give up. The field is crowded, but talent, persistence, and a little luck will bring success.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

THE ERNEST BLOCH SONATA
(Continued from Page 25)

This section completes the material from which the movement, and much of the succeeding movements, is built. And with consummate skill Bloch has developed it with that economy of means, what terms such as "concentrated" imply. The second movement is, in effect, a development of the first. The same thematic basis is in, but it is used in a variety of ways; the contrasts are much more intense than in the first movement. The composer, as in the opening movement, allows a number of subordinate ideas to work themselves out. The melodic idea is often a phrase of marked intervallic outline; the contrasts of rhythm and dynamics are skillfully used as a means of dramatic emphasis.

There are lyrical episodes. The poetic quality is never absent, and the movement is a free and flexible one in which Bloch's technical control never interferes with the expressive flow. There are, as one would expect, many harmonies of a modern color, but they are always founded upon obvious melodic facts and so keep their emotional and tonal bearings. The movement has characteristic passages in which the violin expresses an almost improvisatory sense of line; the accompaniment is frequently reduced to a supportive fabric and at times to bare harmonic pulses, but the violin writing is always of the first quality.

The finale returns to the vigor of the first movement, and here the music assumes the aspect of battle. Aggressive rhythms, and martial dotted motives are the stuff out of which the movement is modeled. The composer uses rhythmic repetition, and the recurrence of motives gives unity to the whole sonata. The development section is active and searching; the recapitulation brings back the main ideas with a driving insistence; the coda resolves the conflict with a climax which is both inevitable and convincing. There is, throughout, a feeling of organic growth, a sense that the work is not a collection of pieces but a single, unified sonata.

Bloch's sonata is an outstanding example of modern tonal music which retains strong roots in melodic and emotional tradition. It will repay repeated hearing and study, both for its craftsmanship and its power.

THE END

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

New, Exciting Albums for Piano!
PLAY DUETS with a RECORD
BY KENNETH KIMES

Student plays FIRST piano part of favorite pieces while Kenneth Kimes plays second piano parts on the record!

Most original, progressive innovation in years! Develops rhythmic discipline. Student must stick first time to "stay" with record. He gets a strong choral-like tone to learn his part ... and finds it enjoyable! EDUCATIONAL! He learns to "follow" a record as accompaniment. ENTERTAINING! He always has "someone with whom to play duets." Makes piano study "less lonely." Excellent for adults, too.

ALBUM I - For beginners, Grade 1-2. Printed music for favorite pieces and one 45-rpm unbreakable record. List price $1.50.

ALBUM II - For more advanced grade, 2-4. Printed music for more favorite pieces and TWO 45-rpm unbreakable records. List price $1.95. FREE—A copy of "Tunes To Play & Color" (List price $1.25) with every order of 2 or more albums of "PLAY DUETS WITH A RECORD."

For sale at music stores or direct from MELODY MUSIC CO. Send cash, check or money order (NO C.O.D.'s, Please). We pay postage and handling. (These albums also available at your local music dealer at list price.)

MELODY MUSIC CO., Evanston, Ill.
"MUSIC IN TUNE WITH TODAY"

Let Them Begin With The Best in ELEMENTARY PIANO METHODS

MAGIC KEYS—Piano Books 1 & 2
BY LOUISE CURCIO
Shows direct relationship between written note and piano key. A series of fine beginning books for small children using piano key pictures, little games and the simplest musical notation. A bright, effective, modern method for the very young beginner. Each book 1.00

WORK & PLAY Volumes 1 & 2
BY EUGENIA ROBINSON & MARY McCORMICK
A new idea in elementary course work featuring modern rhythmic patterns, interesting pieces, step-by-step technical training, sight-reading ideas. Well planned repertoire. Each book 75c

THE B. F. WOOD MUSIC CO. INC.
24 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

Robert Whitford
PIANO METHODS

Represent a New Movement in Piano Education

Robert Whitford
(photo: small black-and-white head-and-shoulders portrait of Robert Whitford, neatly dressed, facing slightly to the right, looking toward the camera)

Robert Whitford PIANO METHODS represent the modern approach to piano teaching. Robert Whitford has developed a series of graded books and teaching materials which stress musical understanding, enjoyable repertoire and modern classroom techniques. His methods include clear progressive studies, attractive pieces and practical ideas for teachers. For further information write:

Robert Whitford Publications, 204 N.E. 31st St., Miami 37, Fla.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

Non-textual image descriptions:
- Left page, top-left corner: a jagged, starburst-shaped boxed advertisement with the prominent headline "go back to school with the finest in PIANO Publications!" The box contains promotional text and a vertical listing of Michael Aaron piano course items and other piano publications. The design includes bold headings and small-print itemized listings with prices.
- Left page, lower left: several rectangular advertisement blocks stacked vertically, each with product titles in bold and descriptive copy; no photographs, primarily typographic layout.
- Center and right pages: dense columns of printed text (articles) with headlines in bold capitals: "HOW TO WRITE GOOD TUNES" and "THE ERNEST BLOCH SONATA."
- Right page, upper right: a boxed advertisement titled "PLAY DUETS with a RECORD BY KENNETH KIMES" with promotional copy and two boxed album descriptions labeled ALBUM I and ALBUM II; includes small logo-style text "MELODY MUSIC CO., Evanston, Ill. 'MUSIC IN TUNE WITH TODAY'".
- Right page, lower right: an advertisement with a small black-and-white portrait photograph of Robert Whitford (head-and-shoulders), accompanied by copy promoting his piano methods and listing contact information. The portrait shows a man in mid-adult years, wearing a suit, posed against a plain background.
I transcribed all clearly legible text from the image and described the non-text images. Some of the small-print material (fine details in many small classified-style ads and a list of dates/locations under the Ray Green ad) is too small or blurred to read with confidence. Where that occurred I note it and can re-scan or crop a high-resolution excerpt if you want me to capture those details exactly.

Extracted text (legible portions):

Left page (large ad and columns)

RAY GREEN
Piano Course

A Piano Course of
OUTSTANDING merit!

Designed for
A thorough foundation
in musicianship

Enjoyable progress
at the piano

[Three book covers pictured: "RAY GREEN Piano Course" (two small book images) and one circular label image.]

The following books are now available

BEGINNING BOOK .75
BOOK ONE 1.00
BOOK TWO 1.00
BOOK THREE 1.00
ETUDES AND VARIATIONS, Based on Hanon, Books 1 and 2, each .75

[Small-print schedule/list of places and dates under Mr. Green’s name — too small/blurry to read accurately. Please supply a higher-resolution crop if you need these specific dates and cities exactly.]

Please consult your local dealer for complete details.

CHAPPELL & CO., INC.
RKO BUILDING • ROCKEFELLER CENTER • NEW YORK 20, N. Y.

AGAIN AVAILABLE—THE RENOWNED
VIRGIL
PIANO PIECES
FOR TEACHING AND RECITALS

To a Humming Bird • Improvisation • Valse Petite • Mazurka,
The Blind Harp Player • The Conquered Warrior • Preludes, etc.
Grades 1 to 6
THE VIRGIL PIANO SCHOOL CO.
Kiamsha Lake, New York
Catalog on request

[Small horizontal ad image of a flute at bottom left]
The Haynes Flute
Wm. S. Haynes Co.
[Address line partly legible] 104-106 [Beverly?] Street, Boston 18, Mass.

Violin Questions
Answered by
HAROLD BERKLEY

Numbered Violins?
J. K., Nebraska. Some of the most important dealers in old violins, such as Hill's of London and Wurlitzer in New York, number the instruments that pass through their hands, but I know of no book which tells what dealer numbered which instrument. I am afraid I can tell you nothing about a violin made "from an old Scotch table 4000 years old." Four thousand years is a long time to any table and an impossible age for a violin.

A So-called Schweitzer Violin
Mrs. S. J. C., Pennsylvania. A genuine John Bapt. Schweitzer violin, if in first-class condition, could be worth as much as $600 today. However, there are on the market, and in private possession, thousands of inferior fiddles—one cannot even call them violins—which are not worth more than $15 but which bear correctly-worded Schweitzer labels. A label is the cheapest thing to buy. Only by personal examination can an expert tell whether a violin so labeled is or is not a genuine Schweitzer.

Can a Reader Help?
J. E. M., Arizona. The name of Francesco Galli ... is not to be found in any of my books of reference—which is not to say that he never existed. The name may indeed be fictitious, or it may be that a maker who produced only a few violins perhaps some reader of this column can tell us something about him.

Not Well Known in this Country
W. H., Wisconsin. The name Nicola Uffel is not well known in this country, but he has attained some fame in his native Italy. An instrument of his would have to be judged for value on its individual merits, for there are now collectors of his work in this part of the world to establish a market price.

No Value in Ornate Decorations
C. R. B., Texas. I am sorry, but there is little I can tell you about your violin, except that instruments so ornately decorated are rarely of much value. There are some notable exceptions to this, however. In the photographs you show me I find nothing to justify a high valuation. I do not think your violin is one of those exceptions. Not even the most experienced of experts can appraise the value of a violin without examining it. THE END

[Column of small conservatory/college ads — larger headings legible, details partly legible:]

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
College of Music

All Branches of Music
and Music Education

Robert A. Choate, Dean

Courses leading to the degrees B. Mus., M.M., M.M. in conjunction with the Graduate School—M.A., Ph.D. In conjunction with the School of Education—M.Ed., Ed.D.

Year-round Programs and Workshops include—
Workshop in Music Education
Opera Workshop
Piano Workshop
Vocal Workshop
Eminent Faculty of Artists, Composers, Scholars and Educators
Master Classes and Studio Instruction
Artist Series and Lecture Recitals

For information, catalogue, illustrated folder, write

DONALD L. OLIVER
Director of Admissions

BOSTON UNIVERSITY Room 118
705 COMMONWEALTH AVENUE
BOSTON 15, MASSACHUSETTS

BALDWIN-WALLACE
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
BEREA, OHIO (College of Liberal Arts)
[Further small text partly legible—catalogue information and director’s name CECIL W. MUNK]

CONVERSE COLLEGE
[small text—address and music department info partly legible]

COKER COLLEGE
[small text—course info partly legible]

MILLIKIN UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
[brief ad—address and course info partly legible]

SAN FRANCISCO
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
[brief ad—address and registrar info partly legible]

CHICAGO MUSICAL
COLLEGE
A Division of Roosevelt University
[brief ad—address and course info partly legible]

[Many of these small ads contain program and address details; some of the very small lines are too fine to read clearly from the image.]

Right page (Organ Questions column and Wurlitzer ad)

Organ Questions
Answered by FREDERICK PHILLIPS

I am trying to find the name of the manufacturer of a reed organ which has the following on the stop-panel: March & Sch? New York, Univ. [text continues; several questions and answers follow. Some sentences legible, others tiny and densely set and partially blurred.]

[Large column of text: Q&A dealing with types of organs, Hammond organ method, pipe organ, registration, tuning, stop names, etc. Representative readable lines:]

To the best of our knowledge these are the correct stop names as published in books ... We recommend the following books: The Hammond Organ by Starer & Hallett (an adaptation of the well known Stainer Pipe Organ method to the modern instrument), The Pipe Organ Method, compiled by Reginald ... Both of these books contain a lot of basic material and are useful for those who are beginning to master organ technique. For church organists the "Primer of Organ Registration" by Nevin will be of help. The best way to learn registration is by practical experience in the church organ to which you have access. A book will be of help in understanding the principles of registration but there is no substitute for the instrument itself.

The questioners' initials and states appear frequently (for example B. E. J., Minn.; W. H. M., Oreg.) followed by replies giving practical advice about organ repertoire, pedal studies, manuals, practice suggestions and recommended books. The column ends with "A REGRETTABLE OMISSION" noting that a recent review omitted credit to an artist, and a brief correction.

[A long continuous column of dense text; some words and sentences are legible while many small lines are too fine to transcribe exactly from this image. If you want the full verbatim text of the Organ Questions column I can crop and OCR that area at higher resolution.]

Right-side advertisement (full-height) — large Wurlitzer ad:

Says DAVE GARROWAY
Star of NBC's popular TV Show "TODAY"

"I LEARNED TO PLAY MY
WURLITZER ORGAN
THE FIRST EVENING"

Prove it to yourself, mail the coupon below for a
FREE, EASY LESSON

[Large photo: Dave Garroway seated at a Wurlitzer spinet organ shown in right-side half-page photo. He holds a booklet and smiles toward the camera; the instrument has a small cabinet and bench.]

THE WURLITZER SPINETTE

IS PRICED AT
Only $1325
F.O.B. NORTH TONAWANDA, N.Y.

[Smaller testimonial text to the left of photo:]

"It was astounding news to me that anyone, even if they have never played a musical instrument, could play several tunes on the Wurlitzer Organ the first evening. Already this beautiful instrument has become the focal point of entertainment in my home," says Dave Garroway.

Surprisingly, the Wurlitzer Organ with all its thousand different tonal colors has beautiful solo voices, special effects and full orchestral tones. It is amazingly easy to master. Traditional tone and lightning fast action make it ideal for the serious student of music, too.

Children, especially, learn faster, find their musical education a pleasure rather than a chore. See a Wurlitzer Organ dealer now or mail the coupon below.

FREE BOOKLET
How to Play a Wurlitzer Organ in One Evening

[Small image of booklet cover and dotted coupon lines below]

The Rudolph Wurlitzer Company
Box 410
North Tonawanda, N.Y.

"I feel sure you will be able that I can learn to play the Wurlitzer Organ the first evening. I would like to try the FREE EASY LESSON by mail. Please send me the booklet and lesson."

Name ..........................................................
Address ........................................................
City ...........................................................
County .........................................................

WURLITZER
ORGANS
IN THE TRADITION
OF THE
"MIGHTY WURLITZER"

[Bottom of ad shows small typed testimonial quote and dealer/order instructions; very small print not completely legible at this resolution.]

Right page lower left small boxed items and some short paragraphs:
[Several brief reader letters and replies regarding church organs, Baldwin organs, electronic organs and recommendations for teachers and dealers; some short testimonials and brief corrections. Small print is readable in part but many single-line details are too fine to render with total accuracy in this image.]

Non-textual images and description:

- Left-page center: Photograph of Ray Green (a man shown from chest up, wearing a suit, looking at the camera) surrounded by three pictured book covers of the "Ray Green Piano Course" (two rectangular covers and one circular-sticker style image).
- Bottom-left, small horizontal photo/illustration of a flute labeled "The Haynes Flute" (a detailed picture of a flute horizontally across the width of the small ad).
- Right page, large photograph of Dave Garroway seated on a piano/organ bench at the Wurlitzer Spinet (he holds a booklet in his right hand, smiling toward the camera; the spinet organ has a modest cabinet size and carved legs, with a sustain pedal area visible on the floor).
- Small inset picture of a booklet near the "FREE BOOKLET" text showing a cover illustration of a person at an organ.

If you would like:
- a higher-accuracy, full OCR transcription of the tiny columns and the small-print classified ads and lists, please upload a higher-resolution crop of those areas (I recommend separate crops for: the Ray Green schedule/list under the price list; the dense college-ad column in the middle; and the Organ Questions column). I will then transcribe every line verbatim.
- a plain text file export or formatted layout of any single column, tell me which and I will produce it.

Which area would you like me to crop and reprocess for a fully exact transcription?
Junior Etude

EDITED BY ELIZABETH A. GEST

The Listening Ear
By Elizabeth Searle Lamb

MUSICIANS have trained ears. As you learn to play your instrument your ear learns, at the same time, to recognize correct pitch, to notice the differences in shading from pianissimo to fortissimo, to recognize the contrast between legato and staccato, and all the various characteristics that distinguish music from noise, and elevate good music above poor music.

Did you ever use your trained ear to make life more fun when you are away from your instrument? If you keep your listening ear keen, you will find a whole world of sound around you.

When you are reading a book, watch for words referring to sounds—such as raindrops falling on a roof; footsteps echoing down a long hall; gay laughter; a bird call, the bark of a dog—these are simple sound images. Can you hear them in your mind as you read these phrases? Take time to bring each sound clearly into your inner ear.

If you have a keen ear, sounds will often identify different places where you have been. If you go on a trip listen for the sound-patterns of the places you visit. If you ever awake early in the morning, just listen! What sounds are there? It may seem very still at first, but your ear will begin to pick out many sounds—the "whoosh" of wheels on cement, an early bird-call, a distant train whistle, a honking horn. Listen also at night when you go to bed before you fall asleep.

In your English classes in school try to use some words that appeal strongly to the ear, such as the clop-clop of galloping horses; the policeman's shrill whistle; the clatter from the kitchen. Your writing will be more interesting (but don't overdo it).

Finally, there is one more use for your listening ear. Use it to study your music when you are away from your instrument. Go over your music slowly and, with your eyes shut, try to hear it just as it will sound when you play it. This study can be a wonderful help in memorizing and also a help in perfecting your phrasing and expression. Hear the music with your inner ear; then go back to your instrument and try to duplicate the sounds you heard mentally. You will find that your musicianship develops rapidly.

Truly, the development of a listening ear and the ability to hear sounds in your mind can make you a better musician, a more interesting writer, and a person more vividly aware of the world around you. So, try this and see what fun you will have.

"King Saul, in the Bible,
Into deep, deep sleep did lie,
But my strings played by David
Made the King feel quite well."

"Boom, boom," say the big ones,
"Rat-a-tat," say the small;
"Parades without us two
Would get nowhere at all."

ANCIENT MEDICINE
by Gertrude Greenhalgh Walker

THE PROJECT for Robert's Music Club meeting was to provide and administer medicine for the convalescing soldiers.

"But Robert!" his mother exclaimed. "Doctors and nurses are the people who do that."

"Sure. But we are going to give another kind of medicine: a kind that was advocated five hundred years B.C. It is medicine that can soothe, bring joy, tenderness, hope, determination, courage and happiness to all. In fact it can bring all the emotions that enter into our lives. It's MUSIC. Our club counselor told us about the man who advised the use of this medicine so many hundreds of years ago.

He had a sort of laboratory where he worked and gave all the tones of the scale labels and assigned them for special uses. Legends tell that he composed melodies in different styles to be used as antidotes for fear, anger, sorrow, etc. He invented new rhythms which he used to strengthen and steady the mind. He recommended that people play on the lyre and sing."

"Astonishing, Robert. What was his name?" asked his mother.

"He was the great Greek philosopher and mathematician, Pythagorus, and he was born about 497 B.C. Some say he should be called 'Doctor of Humanity.'"

SONG TITLE GAME
By Ida M. Parish

The last words of these songs are also their titles. Each dash represents one word. How many songs can you name?

1. those gentle voices calling
2. a better friend than —
3. far from ——
4. the lads they smile at me —
5. take a cup o' kindness yet,
6. bonnie banks o' —
7. a sight in your life as —
8. loving vigil keeping — —
9. come to my bounding bark —
10. hit up a tune called ——

Answers on next page

WHAT THE INSTRUMENTS SAY
by Marion Benson Matthews

"I'm bass of the woodwinds
And my voice goes 'way down;
I can be majestic,
Yet at times I play clown."

Then small drawings of a drum, a harp, and a clarinet with labels/signs (no words except instrument sounds?) (image)

WHO KNOWS WHICH?
(Keep score. One hundred is perfect)

1. Which of the following words relate to harmony: unison, interval, endear, enharmonic, concord, concordance, tonic?
2. Which of the following is a symphony orchestra conductor: Schilit, Sarto, Stokowski, Sitchello, Savlki, Stojowski, Seitz? (20 points)
3. Which of the following opera stars: Schmidt, Sorel, Sain? (10 points)
4. Which of the following terms have Italian words: Glissando, Tutti, Stretto? (10 points)
5. Which of the following words are names of musical forms: Trio, Rondo, Gavotte, Gigue, Sarabande? (10 points)
6. Which of the following are names of musical instruments: Sitar, Sarod, Ektar, Saron? (10 points)
7. Which of the following are names of composers: Dein, Vivaldi, Lerner, Gounod? (10 points)
8. Which of the following are terms used in band music: Drum major, Flugelhorn, Timpani? (10 points)
9. Which of the following are types of dances: Ballet, Waltz, Mazurka, Reel? (10 points)
10. Which of the following are percussion instruments: Marimba, Triangle, Xylophone? (10 points)

(Answers on next page)

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951

No Junior Etude Contest This Month

Letter Box

Send replies to letters in care of Junior Etude, Box 630, Chicago, Ill., and they will be forwarded to the writers. Do not ask for addresses. Replies to letters must be enclosed with a stamped, addressed envelope for return of one. Do not send letters asking for records, sheet music, or requests to perform. These letters will not be answered.

Letter Box Notice

The Letter Box is holding letters from Karen Leichtke (Illinois), Arlena Tyger (Pennsylvania) and Melvin Melanson (Michigan), who wrote and said they would like to hear from other readers. BUT—these writers omitted addresses or gave incomplete addresses. Letters will be returned if complete addresses are not printed in the Letter Box because it would not be possible to forward such letters. If you are the writer and do not want your name published, print your name and address on a separate slip and enclose it with your letter. Junior Etude wants to publish your letters but cannot print ones with incomplete addresses or they will have to be returned to the writers.

Dear Junior Etude:
I would like to hear from readers in your column. I am a tenor and take part in school productions and community musicals. (Age 16), Calif.

Dear Junior Etude:
I am 15 years old and I take piano in school and have been taking piano lessons for 6 years. I am interested in organ and wish to get an organ for my own. Please send me information about small organs for home use. (Name omitted) (Age 15), Ohio.

Dear Junior Etude:
I am 13 and I have been taking piano lessons for 3 years. I also like to sing. Please write and tell me about other readers who like the same things I do. (Age 13), N.Y.

Dear Junior Etude:
I would like to hear from people who like folk songs. Please write to (address omitted). (Age omitted), Mich.

Dear Junior Etude:
I ceased piano lessons for three years, then started again. I am now taking lessons from my present teacher and am practicing two hours every day. I am 14 years old. Please write. Joyce Butler (Age 14), New York.

Dear Junior Etude:
I have studied piano for five years. I would like to hear from other readers who enjoy playing duets and ensemble playing. (Age 13), Maryland.

Project of the Month for OCTOBER
Learn and memorize one of your favorite hymns and play them for your family or friends to sing.

Answers to Song Title Game
1. Old Black Joe; 2. Old Dog Tray; 3. The Lost Chord; 4. Coraline; 5. Auld Lang Syne; 6. Loch Lomond; 7. The Old Folks at Home; 8. The Old Refrain; 9. There's a Friend for Little Children; 10. That's the Ticket? (text fuzzy; this line partly unclear)

(Additional small text): Answers to Quiz: 1. interval, enharmonic, concord, tonic; 2. Stokowski; 3. Sorel; 4. Tutti, Stretto; 5. Trio, Rondo, Gavotte, Gigue, Sarabande; 6. Sitar, Sarod; 7. Vivaldi, Gounod; 8. Drum major, Timpani; 9. Waltz, Mazurka, Reel; 10. Marimba, Triangle, Xylophone

Sharon Huff
(See letter above)

PROJECT OF THE MONTH FOR OCTOBER
Learn and memorize one of your favorite hymns and play them for your family or friends to sing.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951

(Photograph of Sharon Huff: a black and white head-and-shoulders portrait of a smiling young girl with short hair, wearing a dress with a rounded collar.)

Dear Junior Etude:
I have been studying piano for three years. I would like to write to other readers who enjoy music and hope to hear from you. (Name omitted.) (Age 13), N.Y.

Dear Junior Etude:
I have studied piano for five years and will be glad to hear from readers who like the same music as I do. (Age 14), Ontario.

Dear Junior Etude:
Enclosed is a picture of our music club in which we meet once a month. It is called the Red and Blue Music Club and boys and girls are divided into teams for contest points. All the members enjoy playing and singing very much. (William Lock) (Age 13), Ontario.

(Photograph of a group of children: caption) Red and Blue Music Club, Toronto. (names listed) Donna Harris, Leslie Brown, Loretta Dean, Linda Simmons, Eleanor Moore, Jean Smith, Barbara Jones, Elaine Brown, Patricia Green, Ann Richards, Elizabeth Duncan, Deborah Duncan (Ages 9 to 11)

for best results... you'll need the finest!
The LEILA FLETCHER
PIANO COURSE

BOOK ONE
The EASIEST BEGINNER'S BOOK written, Graded to the last degree so that progress is almost automatic. This book will fascinate your pupils. Unique Keyboard Chart, Duet parts for 19 pieces included, for Ensemble playing and Early Recital use.

BOOK TWO
GRADE 1, Contains an abundance of delightful first grade pieces in "five-finger position." Duets and parts for Ensemble playing included. Keyboard, Transposition Studies begin with Book TWO; these easy, practical and most beneficial studies are immensely enjoyed by the young pupils.

BOOK THREE
This third book of the Piano Course is GRADE 1 to 11/2. A TRE-MENDOUSLY POPULAR BOOK. Contains a wealth of increasingly difficult musical examples. Perfect grading. Complete technical requirements.

BOOK FOUR
Leads smoothly into GRADE 2. No gaps to bridge. Progress is UNIFORM, and GRADUAL! Price 1.00 each

More books of the LEILA FLETCHER PIANO COURSE in preparation.

MONTGOMERY MUSIC INC. 43 COURT STREET, BUFFALO 2, N. Y.

GIVE YOUR CHILD THE ADVANTAGES
Of Studying Piano With An I.P.T.A. Teacher

[Small illustration of child at piano]

International Piano Teachers Ass'n., 264 N.E. 31st St., Miami 37, Fla.
A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION

Musicord's Latest Piano Releases

MINUTE MELODIES—Book 2—Selected by Bermanett—.85c
BY popular demand! Another group of short, beautiful pieces by famous American, English and Continental composers including Bauer, Heller, Burgmuller, D'Hardelot, Schubert, Schumann, Mendelssohn, and many others. Perfect for recitals and concerts. Each piece may be played as an individual number or used with other numbers as a complete program. For young intermediate pupils.

NEW EARLY GRADE PIECES—35c
GOING TO A PARTY—O. Ketelby
LULLABY—E. Clarke
LEMONADE FOR SALE—B. Nelson
WILLIAM TELL (Farewell)—Rossini
PUPPET POLKA—Bermanett
THE MAGIC HOUR—Martin
VILLAGE ON THE GREEN—Brown
THE FAMOUS FUN BOOKS BY DAVID HIRSCHBERG
For the Fun of It—4 books. Book 1—$1.50; Book 2—$1.50; Book 3—$1.50; Book 4—$1.50

For Free Catalog write to
MUSICORD PUBLICATIONS
858 Post Avenue Staten Island 10, N.Y.

(Advertisement illustration: book cover image of The Leila Fletcher Piano Course with text "THE LEILA FLETCHER PIANO COURSE" and a piano keyboard graphic)

(At bottom of right column small boxed text):
Musicord's Latest Piano Releases (repeated heading) followed by list above.

(Entire two-page spread footer)
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951

Note on non-textual images:
- Left page at top: decorative script title "Junior Etude" with flourishes.
- Small musical notation graphic appears in "Song Title Game" showing a short musical staff with notes (no lyrics).
- Small line drawings in "What the Instruments Say" depict a snare drum, a harp silhouette, and a clarinet or woodwind instrument.
- Right page contains a black-and-white portrait photograph of a young girl (Sharon Huff) head-and-shoulders, wearing a light-colored blouse, smiling.
- Right page lower left contains a black-and-white group photo of children in a music club, showing two rows of youngsters of elementary school age in formal attire, captioned "Red and Blue Music Club, Toronto" with a list of members' names and ages (9 to 11).
- Right page right column includes an advertisement with an illustration of the Leila Fletcher Piano Course book cover and a small pictorial of a child at a piano for the I.P.T.A. notice.
THE FASCINATING ENSEMBLE OF FLUTE AND ORGAN
(Continued from Page 12)

available. That which sounds satisfactory in such surroundings is by no means certain to be appropriate when the number is played on flute and organ in a hall or church.

The flute should stand near enough to the organist for good ensemble feeling. Trouble may be found where an old tracker action organ is in use — the flutist will probably have a very uncomfortable feeling that the organ is “sluggishly behind him,” and hence, even with such an organ, however, the seeming “unequalness of response” of the two instruments can be overcome by speedings and extra amount of rehearsal on synchronizing the attack of the two instruments, giving the organist an opportunity to measure the quickness of the response of flute to tone-production in order to co-ordinate his organ tone-production perfectly with the flute. Edward Gammons, organist of the Groton School, has suggested:

Organ tone as we know it possesses a fundamental inertia and delayed attack common to wind instruments of large size, therefore the effect of accent must be conveyed by — various manual touches, and modes of keyboard play.

Actually, the immediateness of tone-production, due to very swift different flutings, due to such factors as thickness of lips, type of flute used (silver, wood, wood), etc., — so that the problem of synchronizing the attack of flute and organ for exactness of response may exist even with the very finest organs.

The modern organs offer fascinating “color” possibilities, and skillful registration will do much to enhance the beauty of the flute sound. (With the one reservation here that the eighteenth century flute sonata, with a keyboard accompaniment consisting of a figured bass realization, should in most cases receive a discrete, simple registration, inasmuch as too colorful or florid a keyboard accompaniment would be inapt natura violating the composer’s intention of background, “full” in support of the solo [flute] voice.)

As a general principle it might be stated that not too much similar flute-stop tone color should be used, as it may confit with or detract from the flute itself. One should aim, two, for the use of new mixtures, which often do not gel well with the flute. As a matter of fact, not all mixtures seem to create the auditory effect that the flute is “out-of-tune” (always distressing to the flutist!); this may be caused by the fact that the orchestral wind instruments of today are built to the equal-tempered scale, whereas on many organs, the mixtures are built to the unequal scale. Mixtures, generally speaking, should be avoided: overtones are alreadyipso facto especially numerous on the organ owing to its sustaining power, and should not be emphasized when playing with a flute.

There are “large” flute tones and “small” flute tones: the latter bears an important place in selecting the amount of organ to be used in accompanying a particular flutist. One should have enough bass in supporting the flute, although this is easily overdone, and 16-foot bass in particular needs to be used with care. When rehearsing flute and organ it can be very helpful, almost mandatory, to have a third person listening carefully in the rear of the church or judging the balance of the ensemble sound. The predominance of treble or bass, and any other inequalities which may not appear to the two performers in their playing positions, may be readily detected this way.

Dr. Clarence Dickinson sums up the challenging problem of accompanying on the organ very succinctly when he says:

Good accompanying depends, that it is, of course, on the selection of the stops of the accompanying organ. You can enhance immeasurably the beauty of a solo number, or you can seriously detract from it, even spoil it altogether, by poor accompanying or contradictory registrations.

Harvey Grace, the eminent English organist, has this to say in “The Complete Organist” (London 1923):

Given good teaching and hard work, a player of very limited natural gifts may become a highly efficient soloist, whereas no amount of instruction can make him a resourceful and sympathetic accompanist. A fundamental difference between solo-playing and accompanying lies in the fact that whereas in the former safety lies in sticking to the written note, in the latter there is the element of freedom, and it will often be preferable to re-arrange an accompaniment. Sometimes a decorative passage or accompaniment figure will need toning down, especially if it is rather high. . . . The registration of an accompaniment needs at least as much care and forethought as that of an elaborate recital piece. It is not so much a matter of frequent stopping, changing as of a nice calculation of the means best suited to the position . . . [the soloist] and the building.

(Continued on Page 44)

UNDERWOOD
FINGER
FLEXOR

Controlled Resistance

• Strengthens weak joints.
• Cultivates finger independence.
• Can be used in spare time.
Conveniently carried in pocket . . . combined with other instruments.

Send cash, money order or check. Quantity discounts on request.

MANUFELX CO.
2130 No. E. Kilbourn, Portland 12, Ore.

TRU-DOT NOTE PLACER
[small image of tool]
Will place precise dots.

William Lewis and Son
34 E. Adams St. — Chicago 2, Ill.
OUR NEW LINE OF VIOLIN PARTS
AND THE NEW 1954 VIOLIN CATALOG ARE NOW AVAILABLE
Publishers of “VIOLINS & VIOLINISTS”

STOP UGLY HEEL HOLES
S A Y - A - R U G
[small image rug]
YOUR LOVELIEST GIFT

A FAMILY AFFAIR
Mother and Father, Brother and Sister — everybody benefits when everybody gives the united way.

GIVE
The United Campaigns

UNITED COMMUNITY CAMPAIGNS all over the nation appeal to you this month. Give generously to your town’s united campaign for voluntary health, recreation and welfare and defense related services.

Entirely New Approach

Piano Beginners may positively sound like professionals by using our new, exciting arrangements. Real inspiration for teacher’s pupils.

No complicated tricks—basically sound for all ages.

Prove it to yourself with these three starters.

Home On the Range • Sweet and Low • Dark Eyes

Easy Effective Pub. Co.
148 Park St.
Montclair, N. J.
Enclosed $1.00 and send me all three together with instructions.

Name ____________________________
Street ____________________________
City ______________________________

(Left column running at bottom) 56 ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

[small ad image of pitch instrument]
Standard Pitch for the Musical World
[above ad narrative: see Kratt earlier]

WM. KRATT CO.
908 Johnson Place, Union, N. J.

______ (edge of page crease) ______

SIMPLE APPROACHES TO CHORAL CONDUCTING
(Continued from Page 20)

be checked and raised only by readers, listening to music, or contact with worthwhile people. Then these standards can be applied intelligently to one’s own efforts.

Though music is an art rather than an exact science, this does not mean that taking of liberties, to use the phrase toward the musical truth, should be entirely without law. Study the printed score, humbly. Recordings by worthy ensembles may also make many things plain.

Start simply, realizing that great music is founded on simple things. Do not look for all possible variations and ornaments. Sing the music straight. Learn to perform the standard trill.

Assume that the composer knows more about his own music than anyone else. Until you have heard it performed as closely as possible in accordance with his intention you are not qualified to consider changes. Music thrives on contrasts, but these are not absolute. We do not sing as fast as we can, as slowly as we can, or as loud or soft as we can. These things are neither pretty nor necessary. Departures from the average mood, speed and volume of a choral passage must be for a purpose, and directly related to the effect you wish the audience to get.

Variation within a phrase, or “rubato” seems to be misunderstood widely. The unfortunate modern tendency is to sing everything either sharply or all more slowly. In its best sense, “rubato” involves going faster and more slowly at various places in the average. Here again, timing is a very fine art. The highly musical conductor sees how long a note can hold over, how fast the run can be, how many singers can hold short lents. The realistic accent is not a set of rules for which the most inflexible. Slightness, lightness and delicacy are the artistic ends. The best singers are not loud, heavy—rather they are light and clean; the best choirs, those that can project expression with translucency. Thus, breathing becomes the most important ingredient in developing a singing chorus.

Attacks are important. Few amateurs know the meaning and proper use of the preparatory motion: does the con- ductor’s motion prepare? It creates the style the singers must carry and it permits a more convincing voice as a the director’s aim in coming down to the word—sound—“ lower.” Keep the strokes or the “up-gong,” “after the gong,” stand wholly aside from any habit.

A similar rote applies to final cadences. Tone, or vowel, must be held in long and proper time. The concluding cadence must be supported; the rest of the phrase, the small ending, must not be overshadowed by any sudden accent. The leader must make an artistically honest curve to the completion of the sentence, and the remaining consonants are pronounced quickly on the third beat.

The physical and spiritual aspects of singing are strangely interlinked. Music must have a soul, but until this soul is fully realized, physical problems are cleared up, the soul may be unable to reach its expression. Then, all of a sudden, the spirit emerges and some remaining physical problems oftentimes solve themselves so speedily that it is amazing. Nature will do a great deal, if certain obstacles are first cleared from the path.

There is the danger, however, that a leader may spend all his energy trying to eliminate things, rather than making a place in his singers for the music and his positive qualities. Singing which has been developed of bad tricks can still be taught.

Take the problem of rigid jaw, tight singing. One conductor sees the problem as being to loosen the jaw. So he devises exercises to make his singers yawn and drop the jaw slackly. But what then? He has still to put live tonal quality between these dead jaws. Something bad has been driven out, but something good has to be put in.

Instead, a leader can ignore the tight jaws, but preach to his chorus the beauty of big, rich vowels under the phrase, and that “ah” and “eh” are not pleasant, and show how bigger vowels like “ah” and “ay” are rich, brilliant and feeling. In singing those bigger sounds, the throat will have to drop the jaw more. Something beautiful and positive will be pushing aside the old habit.

The leader cannot transmit his own enthusiasm to his chorus by talking, but by helping the singers better and more comfortably when they like best to do—sing. He can start with a modest and easy bit that helps his people. Then he can build. A leader must sense the feeling of the group, not being unduly swayed by peculiar individuals. The young, untrained will seek to emulate habits. Probably he will have to change tone color, but his aim should be to have a unified sound. Choral singing, as experimented many times, is better in a large number and more in the pipe and the tonal make of the group.

1. Director should be musical and kind.

2. He should not indicate clearly the manner in which he measures chorus or tone.

3. He does not realize the need for warm up. It is necessary to get rhythm and tone.

4. He chooses music the chorus can do.

5. He has not drilled individual parts separately.

6. He lacks a sense of humor.

Finally, the choral leader must find in singing those basic characteristics that lead to inspiration in which an effective technique is required, other than forms. Not just noise, not merely a different tone-color. Words and ideas become vital. In religion, these ends are obvious. In secular music, too, there must be a fascination akin to religion.

The choral director must be a zealot, and make his singers love it.

THE END

SCHUMANN’S PROPHET BIRD
(Continued from Page 21)

staccato?, and with exquisite finger-tip clarity. Be sure to play freely, won’t you? By that I mean, start the end of measure 2 rather slowly, then steal time descending and ascending. Then give it back, get a bit more spirit later in the end of the phrase (beginning at measure 4). The third bar is very quiet, but give all those middle-of-the-measure rests their full, palpable sound; do not “cheat” them by clipping at the end. Do not rush those preceding rests. Then play the light, transparent beginning of the next phrase, but in the same quietly pianissimo. Even the left hand should play with the utmost delicacy.

Some may ask: “Is the little figure to be repeated?” That is, a melodic idea in the left hand? Yes, it should be, but that is in the interest of unity. The theme always reappears. Never become content with monotony. Vary the color and dynamic for interest.

Now, before the sermon’s repetition, the “Heaven!” bar of the phrase, how can anyone remember all that you have said? But now that I recall other phrases: “Mr. Schumann, I keep thinking that perhaps every line is a preface to the next.” But no. There exists the decorative figure; the lovely sound remains; keep it in spirit. Play it as though the singer would find it and live in it.

She played. What a magical change! Such clarity and lightness, no unawareness; secret, lovely, devout phrasing. It was like a prayer. Note: The Prophet Bird is not by chance the title. It is highly significant, and indeed, the music leads to the idea of prophecy. The bird chirrups, and then the voice takes it up. The end.

ILLUSTRATION CREDITS
10—Parrot Annual, Bulletin
11—Fronken Journal-Bulletin
12—University of Michigan News Service
24—Ralph E. DeWitt

(Top right margin column of ads)

[Small boxed ad with image “MUSICAL BINGO”]
MUSICAL BINGO
[illegible tiny copy at top of box; next lines:]
Instant Fun for All Ages and Occasions
[image shows bingo cards with musical notes]
[bottom perhaps contact info; too small to read clearly]

INSTANT CHANGE
DRAWBAR SELECTORS
Any Number of Presets with Key-Operated Switch
Write for Free Information and Catalogue
RAY KERN
P.O. Box 167
Lakeland, Fla.

PIANO TUNING PAYS
Learn this Independent Profession AT HOME
Our patented TONOMETER simplifies the learning and assures accuracy, with or without knowledge of music. Action, voicing, tone and touch instruction. Complete set of visual and audio teaching aids. No other system offers so much detail nor better results in such short time. We place our pupils in jobs. Learn at home at your own convenience. Everyone should be able to tune his own piano. Write for free book and details.
TONOMETER
LEARNERS’ SERVICE
Dept. 96 — 1560 W. Morse Ave.
Chicago 26, Ill.

YOUR VOICE!
[graphic of an open mouth?; small text]
BOOK MANUSCRIPTS INVITED
If you have a book manuscript relating to music, submit for our consideration. If accepted we may offer publication.
[I cannot read small print — publisher details]

CHRISTENSEN PIANO METHOD
[small ad — text too small to fully read]
[mentions “for best results” and address: 851 Main St., Richmond, Calif. ??? unclear]

MONROE FOLDING BANQUET TABLE
[small ad with table image — small type, illegible]

(Along rightmost narrow column lower)
[Another small ad]
I hold music to be the noblest language of the soul; others find in it only a pleasant combination of sounds.
— Robert Schumann
(1810-1856)

57 ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

(Along page footers)
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 (left page bottom) 56
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954 (right page bottom) 57

Non-textual images described:
- Top left ad shows a photographic image of a compact circular chromatic pitch instrument with a dial and pointer mounted on a small base; the instrument is displayed at a slight angle. Above and beside it are small promotional type blocks and a rectangular dark header reading KRATT MASTER KEY CHROMATIC PITCH INSTRUMENT.
- Under the William Lewis & Son ad is a small line illustration of a simple tool labeled TRU-DOT NOTE PLACER showing the device with a dot marking.
- The STOP UGLY HEEL HOLES ad contains a small black-and-white illustration of a slipper or rug sample and the words SAY-A-RUG with an attractive decorative border.
- A FAMILY AFFAIR / GIVE ad shows a cartoon-like drawing of a family (parents and two children) standing together, with bold large letters G I V E arched above them; the family appears in mid-century stylized illustration.
- The UNDERWOOD FINGER FLEXOR ad includes a photograph of a male hand with the device on the fingers demonstrating controlled-resistance finger flexion; the device looks like a padded loop and spring mechanism attached across the fingers.
- In the right column there is a photographic composite for MUSICAL BINGO showing playing cards with musical note symbols laid out like bingo cards.
- Several very small ads include tiny product photographs or line drawings such as a small piano tuning device, a folding banquet table, and small book/leaflet images; these are black-and-white reproductions with minimal detail.

Note: Some of the smallest ad copy near the right margin and at the lower right is too small and partly obscured by page crease to read accurately from the provided image. I have transcribed the larger headings and the body text of the two main articles and the legible ad copy.
An Open Letter To Three Young Ladies

[Image: An upright piano against a wall with a plant on top, and a small bench. Caption beneath image: The New Kimball Modernaire]

THE YOUNG LADY who is starting to take lessons: "You'll love your new Kimball. It's fun to play and you'll learn so easily. Your friends will enjoy being with you more."

[Portrait image of a young girl]

THE YOUNG LADY the mother, who will always remain young in heart: "Piano study with a fine new Kimball will increase your child's popularity, poise, self-control, coordination. It will nurture pride of accomplishment for advanced study later. And, a smartly styled Kimball such as the Modernaire would automatically become the beauty spot of your home."

[Portrait image of a smiling woman]

THE YOUNG LADY who teaches and whose ideals never grow old: "You already know the world-renowned Kimball with the 'Touch-Tone' features, providing responsive action, full tone and perfect pitch. Now consider all these in-built features ... plus distinctive beauty in all the new Kimballs ... the ideal instrument for your studio."

Every Kimball is made to quality standards famous for 97 years, precision built by experienced craftsmen. There's a Kimball piano perfect for your home among the more than 45 different styles and finish combinations offered.

W. W. KIMBALL COMPANY
Kimball Hall—Chicago 4

See your Kimball dealer, or fill out coupon and MAIL TODAY

MAIL TODAY

W. W. Kimball Co., Kimball Hall
Room 320, Chicago 4, Illinois
Please send me catalog and name of nearest Kimball dealer.

Name __________________________
Address ________________________
City ______________ Zone ____ State ____

MORE THAN A DOWN BEAT

(Continued from Page 19)

write effective radio script. Since he will usually be responsible for the preparation of the continuity for both the pre-game and half-time shows, it is essential that he show considerable aptitude for this particular appointment. Usually such a person is available through the English Department or the local radio station. His duties include the following:

1. Two weeks prior to the scheduled performance, meet with the conductor; review the program and discuss the proposed content of script.
2. Prepare script for pre-game and half-time shows and present it to the conductor for approval one week before game.
3. Attend final three rehearsals each week for the purpose of watching and reviewing and adjusting co-ordination with band movements.
4. Prepare three copies of script for conductor, and band's records.
5. Report to conductor on day of game two hours prior to game time. Review schedule, test microphone and voice projection.

(IX) Copyists and Assistants, as needed.
1. Several weeks before the opening of the fall season the conductor presents the scores to the copied arrangements to the copyist and his assistants. They proceed to extract the parts and prepare them for duplication.
2. The copyist is given a dead line and under normal conditions it should be expected to maintain such dates.
3. The copyist must check and proofread all parts and approve them before presenting them to the conductor. This represents a very important assignment and this staff must be selected with great care. The music must be accurate, neat, clear and of such quality that it can be reproduced in a manner which enables all bandsmen to read it without difficulty. Too frequently reproductions are not legible, and are often inaccurate. Such inefficiency causes loss of rehearsal time and thus adversely affects the performance.
4. All of the aforementioned responsibilities are made only after careful consideration of the qualifications of the individuals. He must be a person of high academic status, alert, co-operative, loyal and possessing great interest in his respective assignment.

In the case of the high school band it is not customary that staff members receive remuneration for their services. It has been my experience that these students enjoy the responsibilities and so recognize the value of the experience that they do receive payment for their services. In the case of the university student it is usually customary that they receive financial assistance for their services. In some instances they may receive hourly compensation while in other situations, such as Michigan, they are placed on a semester contract.

In any event, these services, if properly delegated, prove to be an asset to the conductor. For a student whose life is then the director who acts as the competitor and indispensable to that conductor will thus enable the staff to assume responsibilities for many details. Such students are like the perfect adjuncts because of the unlimited number of things that band conductors must attend.

It is my opinion that the work of a skilled person is more satisfactory than collective action and that a conductor should not attempt to fill all of these positions alone. It is recommended that he have at least one person who will be the head of each major group of duties.

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
MARCHING BAND
ITINERARY
October 15, 16, 17, 1954
MICHIGAN AT NORTHWESTERN
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS
KEEP THIS SCHEDULE IN YOUR POSSESSION THROUGHOUT THE TRIP

General Information:
Check in Headquarters: Sherman Hall

Band Headquarters: Sherman Hall
Band Headquarters at Nurses Residence — Rooms to be announced.

Band Headquarters Instrument Rooms: To be announced.
Transportation: A truck will be available after Thursday's drill rehearsal to transport all instruments to the buses. Be sure to identify all instruments. Adequate storage space will be provided on the buses for personal baggage and instruments. All bandsmen will be expected to care for their own uniforms, and to see they are packed and cared for at all times. Tie and coat are necessary at all times and are to be used on the buses. There is to be no drinking of intoxicants at any time. Violation of this rule will result in University action. The hotel has been instructed not to accept any hotel charges on the part of people who have been misrepresented as band members. No telephone calls, room service, etc., will be permitted unless arranged through the proper channels.

When you arrive at the hotel or any other stop, be certain that your baggage and instruments are identified. Report any ailments to the nurse. The seating arrangement at the Stadium will be announced at the Headquarters and will be explained at the Rehearsal the day before the game.

Friday, October 15:
3:30 P.M.—Leave Hotel Sherman for Wheaton, Illinois.
4:30 P.M.—Arrive at Wheaton and report to Band Headquarters.
4:30–5:30 P.M.—Rehearsal-Drill.
5:45 P.M.—Dinner in High School Cafeteria.
7:45 P.M.—Assemble at Head-quarters.
8:30 P.M.—Perform between games.
9:00 P.M.—Leave Wheaton for Chicago.
10:15 P.M.—Arrive at Hotel Sherman.
10:15–12:00 Midnight—Free.
12:00 Midnight—Room Check.

Saturday, October 16:
8:00 A.M. (C.S.T.)—Breakfast.
8:45 A.M.—Leave for Evanston.
9:30 A.M.—Arrive at Harris Hall.
10:00–11:00 A.M.—Drill-Rehearsal.
11:00 A.M.—Leave Stadium for Scott Hall.
12:15 P.M.—Arrive at Scott Hall for lunch.
1:25 P.M.—Leave Scott Hall for Stadium.
2:15 P.M.—Arrive at Stadium and report to Band Headquarters in the Field House for instruments and assemble for PRE-GAME.
2:30 P.M.—'Pep' Fest.
3:00 P.M.—Pre-game.
3:30 P.M.—Game.
5:00 P.M.—Return to Hotel Sherman for dinner.
7:30 P.M.—Dinner in Chart.
Evening free.

Sunday, October 17:
7:30 A.M. (C.S.T.)—Breakfast.
8:30 A.M.—Leave Hotel Sherman for Ann Arbor.
12:30 P.M. (E.S.T.)—Arrive at Ann Arbor for lunch.
1:30 P.M.—Leave Ann Arbor.
5:30 P.M.—Arrive in Ann Arbor.
THE END

THE TEACHER'S ROUNDTABLE

(Continued from Page 23)

[Article text continues—small column: last paragraphs]
... unfortunates so limited. I have tried always to bring these younger people into the light of their own opportunities, to teach them how to think musically and to help them realize what the word "interpretation" implies. It is only through this approach that we can produce pupils who have individual ideas to express. I have never been a slave to 'method' in teaching. Instead you consider national tours. Instead you consider national tours. Instead you consider national tours. Instead you consider national tours, and each... [text repeats and is partially lost/obscured in scan]

THE END

A SIGNIFICANT TREND

Why isn't there more classical music on the air? The reason is purely commercial. Hooper and other ratings shows clearly that popular music, jazz, and light popular programs command far more listeners than the strictly classical programs. The radio audience is made up largely of people who prefer popular and lighter music. Moreover the cost of presenting symphonic concerts on the air is very great. However, it is reported that the demand for better music is increasingly growing up.

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

Oberlin Conservatory
OF MUSIC

[Image: Detailed black-and-white drawing of a tall stone tower with conical roof and arched windows, reminiscent of a college bell tower]

Dedicated to the Superior Training of American Talent

Intensive professional study of MUSIC, balanced with liberal arts program in America's first coeducational college. Dormitories, concert series by guest and Oberlin artists; excellent practice facilities; faculty of 55 eminent musicians.

Member National Association of Schools of Music

Write for:
—Conservatory catalog describing degree awarded
—Bulletin on admission and audition procedures
—Calendar of music events for the current year
—Programs of concerts and recitals given during past season

Director of Admissions, Oberlin College
Box 5104, Oberlin, Ohio

Sherwood Music School

[Image: Small horizontal photograph of the Chicago skyline and waterfront with buildings seen across a body of water. Caption beneath image: In the heart of cultural Chicago]

Thorough professional training for successful careers. One and two-year certificate courses prepare for private studio teaching. Bachelor and Master Degrees, four and five year programs. Piano, voice, organ, violin, cello, wind instruments, composition, public school music. Faculty of renowned European and American artists. Many opportunities for public recital, solo and group performance. Member of the National Association of Schools of Music.

Founded 1895. Splendidly equipped lakefront building. Spring term begins February 3rd.

For catalog, write: Arthur Hildman, Musical Director
Sherwood Building • 1014 So. Michigan Avenue • Chicago 5 • Illinois

ASTOLFO PESCIA
Voice Teacher and Coach

(Who came to New York at the suggestion of the late GRACE MOORE)
Teacher of DOROTHY KIRSTEN, of the Metropolitan Opera and RINA GIGLI, daughter of the world famous tenor BENIAMINO GIGLI

Suggestions for teaching in New York
NOVEMBER 1
Hotel Astorina
73rd Street and Broadway
New York

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

[Page numbers visible at bottom: 58 (left) and 59 (right)]

(Note on non-textual images:
- Left-page top image: an upright piano (Kimball Modernaire) shown in a domestic interior, with a potted plant on the top and a small bench in front. The piano has a modern mid-century style.
- Three portrait images on the left page: small head-and-shoulders photos of three different women representing the three "young ladies" described in the ad: a young girl (student), a young mother, and a woman teacher.
- Right-page top image: a detailed line-drawing of a tall stone collegiate tower, used in the Oberlin Conservatory advertisement.
- Right-page lower image: a panoramic photograph of Chicago’s lakeshore skyline, used in the Sherwood Music School ad.)
GRADED Christmas Collections
for the enjoyment of pianists of any age

BEGINNERS CAROL BOOK........for students halfway through the pre-grade books. Contains many simple familiar carols, also plenty for the beginner, all in the same easy arrangement...................................................price 60c

CHRISTMAS FOR TWO........duet of duets or solos for grade one. Contains eight songs arranged with primo and secondo in the same grade for the purpose of easier performance.................................price 60c

CHILDRENS CAROL BOOK......for students in grade one. Contains twelve well-known carols all in the same grade. Students will enjoy playing every one of the pieces and their parents will enjoy hearing them........price 75c

SANTAS CAROLS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS...for students in grade two. Contains seventeen favorite Christmas-time songs including the ever-popular "Star Of The East," "Oh Holy Night"..................................................price 60c

CAROLS FOR JUNIORS.........for students in grade two. Contains seventeen Christmas-time songs including the ever-popular "Silent Night," also many short, full, yet easy..........................price 60c

SANTAS FAVORITE CAROLS....for students of second grade. This collection contains fifteen time-saving arrangements in light popular style, many students will like this varied album and it is the perfect piano piece for many occasions................................................price 90c

MUSIC OF CHRISTMAS........a group of seventeen Christmas-time songs in special arrangements for adult, teen-age and advanced students. Many of our best all-around collections........price $1.00

CAROLS FOR THE FAMILY....a group of seventeen Christmas-time songs in special arrangements for adult, teen-age and advanced students. Similar to Music of Christmas, with moderate technical demands.........price $1.00

SACRED CHRISTMAS TIME SONGS...a group of sacred songs used at Christmas-time. A fine assortment for adult, teen and student singers and players, includes "Ave Maria," "Holy City".................................price 90c

ADVANCED CAROL BOOK......for those in higher grades. Contains twelve of the more popular Christmas-time songs in beautifully styled "difficult " arrangements with scales, arpeggios, and intricate finger work......price $1.00

THESE BOOKS AVAILABLE THROUGH YOUR MUSIC DEALER OR DIRECT

THOMAS MUSIC COMPANY, Publishers
34 East Elizabeth Street Detroit 1, Michigan

MUSIC TEACHERS' SUPPLIES

Buck's "B" Piano chart: large keyboard chart.......................................35c
Buck's Practice Card..............................................................15c
Willard's Pupil's Record Book...............................................25c
Williams Pupil's Record Book..............................................35c
Willard's Time & Exercise Book............................................35c
Williams Teacher's Appointment Card.................................25c

ask to see these items AT YOUR MUSIC DEALERS

MUSIC READINESS PROGRAM
By Sister M. Xaveria, O.S.F., Mus.M.
THE MUSIC READINESS PROGRAM, widely acclaimed and endorsed by prominent educators, has been adopted by various age schools. The music readiness program includes progressive rhythmic and melodic ear training; music appreciation; listening; playing: instruments; activities suitable for infants, nursery, kindergarten, first, second, and third grades. THE MUSIC READINESS PROGRAM is adapted to all grade needs and is planned to be used by classroom teachers as well as by music teachers. Sent to you on approval for examination and demonstration, price list on request.

MY MUSIC PICTURE BOOK..............................75c
MUSIC AND GUIDE BOOK.................................1.00
MY MUSIC CLIP BOOK...................................1.00
MY MUSIC COPY BOOK................................1.00
MY SONG NOTE BOOK...................................25c

For further particulars write
THE SERAPHIC PRESS
1501 South Layton Boulevard
Milwaukee 5, Wisconsin

MUSIC SCHOOL STUDENTS
earn extra money as an
ETUDE REPRESENTATIVE
for information, write
Business Manager,
ETUDE the music magazine,
Bryn Mawr, Pa.

ABILITY to hear music accurately bears directly on the
ABILITY TO PERFORM
ABILITY TO MEMORIZE
ABILITY TO WRITE MUSIC

PRACTICE PIPES are a set of pitch pipes especially designed for schools. They are the most accurate and convenient pipes made, with every note easily produced. Write for "Guide to Use of Practice Pipes"

ROBIN PRACTICE PIPES
Dept. E
4244 West End Ave., Chicago 24, Ill.

IS THERE AN "ITALIAN" METHOD?
(Continued from Page 15)

This kind of singing projects tone into the masque, and that is the only correct place for good resonance.

The chamber of resonance bears the same relation to the voice that the body of the violin bears to violin tone. All tone must be set out from the front of the masque. This kind of tone comes out pure, natural, free and never requires forcing.

There, then, are the basic principles of "Italian" singing. I was trained in my native Trieste by my honored teacher, Maestro Toffolo, who kept me for nine months on fundamental exercises. The first two months were spent in mastering breathing. Then came work on emission and resonance. Only then was I allowed to begin work on the classic aria antiche. The first operatic arias I was allowed to sing were selected from the role of Adalgisa in "Norma," because the texture of these arias is also perfect for emphasizing the values of sound technique and vocal finesse.

It is difficult to recommend individual exercises, since each throat is individual and must be treated in accordance with its own needs. Still, I can outline some of the drills I use myself, and still use—every day of my life. Here, I may say that once a year I go back to Maestro Toffolo for a thorough check-up on my singing habits. As for exercises, scales are, of course, a basic need. I also derive much help from the spinning of tones—how is it done? Run through a simple five-note scale, on one breath, beginning pianissimo, gradually increasing volume to forte, and then decreasing again to pianissimo, at all times being watchful that my throat position remains equal, and never forcing. Another good exercise is to sing the intervals 1-3-5-8 going up, and 7-5-4-2 coming down, three times over on one breath, again watching for complete equalization.

Sometimes the true contralto voice runs the risk of sounding hollow or "shooty." To avoid this, practice slowly, evenly, making more than ever certain of diaphragmatic breathing and frontal resonance. Fortunately, I have never been troubled by this problem myself, but I think it results from pushing the voice down (possibly in an effort to color it), and from allowing chest resonance to creep in. The normal chest resonance is necessary at times, but my own register usually is the very close middle voice—high-B; and the heavy low or thick voice in the lower part of the chest is, as I have said, the result of forcing. Much depends on the position of the jaw and the relaxation of the facial muscles and throat.

This is a brief outline of the "Italian" method of singing. But the singer needs more than mere vocal skills, important as they are. In the theatre, the important form is the operatic singer who performs as well as singing. Here, some degree of natural talent must be present—just as singing requires a basically pleasing natural voice. In the last analysis, nobody can teach you how to act as to move and convince an audience; you learn to walk, to stand, to conduct yourself on the stage, but a spark of dramatic talent must be present which work involves the task of learning to sing and to act at the same time, and in this sense, it differs greatly from the stage work of the dramatic theatre. Operatic gestures are bigger, it is said. This is true; but it is also helpful to understand why. On the speaking stage, tone and timing depend entirely upon the sense of the scene; in opera, the voice is chiefly upon the musical lines. If you have to say the words, "I love you," on the stage, you are guided only by the music and by the intensity of the sense. But if you have to sing "I love you," you are guided chiefly by the length and tempo of the aria in which the words occur. And if they occur in a passage of 16 measures, you cannot possibly project them as you would the spoken sentence. Thus, following the line and phrase of the music imposes upon operaic acting a kind of restraint—largeness—which may not be at all natural yet the must be made to seem natural! The singer who takes 16 measures to say "I love you" not only must be sure to project the words, but must be emotionally and dramatically convincing. For this reason the Italian singer, though often accused by the dramatic school of being theatrical on the stage, obtains the qualities of correct acting under operatic conditions.

Besides this, the popular method of teaching singing in Italy is more conservative, I think, than that used elsewhere. The teacher of singing must be a musician in the strict sense of the word and must guide in the interpretation of style as well as in the production of tone. The teacher must know the score, must guide the pupil in phrasing and in the use of dynamics, and must be capable of teaching the pupil to read and to understand the role. The teacher is, in short, a master of the craft of singing, and not merely a voice coach who teaches tricks of emission and useless shadings.

The record of Italian singers in the past has been terrific. I have always felt that the real reason for this is the long training in style and musicianship which every Italian singer receives at the conservatory and in private study. The teacher in Italy is more of a master, and the teacher's authority is more absolute, than it often is elsewhere. This again has advantages and disadvantages, but I believe the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. The teacher who knows his craft takes a long view of the pupil's career and does not hurry the pupil. There is also, in many cases, a greater degree of patience and of attention to the health of the voice than is sometimes found in other countries.

I would like to mention also the Italian school of diction. Italian is a wonderfully simple language for the singer. Vowels are pure and consonants clean, and the mechanics of the language are such as to help the singer produce a beautiful legato. The legato in Italian singing is almost automatic because the vowels are naturally linked. This helps greatly in the development of a polished smoothness of sound.

Finally, I think it necessary to say that there is no one "Italian" method which can be rigidly applied to every voice. The principles are clear—breath control, resonance, correct emission, good diction, and musicality—but each teacher must adapt them to the individual student. To attempt to mold every voice into a single pattern would be both foolish and unjust. The individuality of the voice must always be preserved and used as a means of expression.

There are many schools of singing in the world and many valuable methods. The "Italian" method is a distinguished and historic contribution, but every teacher should be open to ideas and techniques which help the student to sing well, healthfully, and convincingly.

HIGHLIGHTING HIGH FIDELITY
(Continued from Page 26)

is unpleasant in any way the least. Distortion, hum, needle squeal, or other noises are very often present, or in ordinary sets but present more distinctly in the higher fidelity equipment. Practically, however, a good turntable and pickup will show up all these blemishes in an inferior record.

Nowadays, high fidelity reproduces the music with remarkable accuracy. High fidelity is now the definite trend! In good stereophonic and high fidelity records you can hear the tonal quality of string and woodwind instruments more clearly; the instruments can be placed with greater precision, and you can detect the balance between the sections of the orchestra. Many customers who have always been satisfied with ordinary reproduction are surprised to find that the new equipment reveals details they never heard before.

For your record player you have the choice of a manual or automatic changer. The manual offers simplicity and better reliability in the long run, while automatic changers are convenient for people who like to have long programs play unattended. The choice between them becomes a matter of personal habit and of the time you want to devote to the operation of your equipment.

As for speakers, choose the best you can afford. A good speaker will present the music with clarity and with the required dynamic range. Avoid cheap units that cannot reproduce bass or treble accurately. Also, make sure your speakers are placed correctly in the room; speaker placement has a great effect on the sound field and on the perceived spatial qualities of the music. Try to keep equal distance between listeners' ears and the speakers.

At the present time the electronics in high fidelity equipment are far superior to those of a few years ago. Tubes have been improved and many of the earlier defects have been overcome. The amplifier now can handle a wider band of frequencies, and with less distortion. For the best performance use low-noise cartridges and tone arms which are well balanced. Use a phono preamplifier of good quality and avoid unnecessary equalization that can color the sound.

For listeners who want complete clarity, consider purchasing a tape recorder. A good reel-to-reel recorder will provide superb fidelity for recording your favorite broadcasts, or duplicating records for private use. The tape medium is superior in several respects to discs, though it requires care and good maintenance to avoid hiss and wow-and-flutter.

When buying components, remember that you pay for quality. A low priced set will give you enjoyment at first, but you will find yourself replacing parts as you upgrade. Buying high quality components from the start is usually the more economical route over the long run.

In closing, the high fidelity movement is not a mere fad. It is the natural progression in the reproduction of sound, and it offers the listener the chance to hear music in much the same way the artist intended. The right equipment, carefully selected and properly installed, brings you a sense of satisfaction comparable to that of a live performance.

THE END

AMERICAN CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC—CHICAGO
Offers Courses in All Branches of Music
Membership in Faculty of 100 artist teachers
Send for a free catalogue—Address: John R. Rockafellow, Pres., 222 North LaSalle St., Chicago

CINCINNATI CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
William S. Naylor, Ph.D., Director and Dean of Faculty
DEGREE COURSES IN PHILOS. VOCAL, ORCHESTRAL, AND INSTRUMENTAL ORGANS, COMPOSITION, MUSIC EDUCATION.
Affiliated with the University of Cincinnati, member of the North Central Association of Schools and Colleges.
White Dept. E. H. Riehlhand, Ave. and Ohio Sts. Cincinnati 13, Ohio

The Cleveland Institute of Music
School of Music, Master of Music, Bachelor of Science in Education (B. S. Ed.), by
V E R D A V A N N E Y, Director
School of Music, Cleveland, Ohio
3411 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 14, Ohio
Member of the National Association of Schools of Music

COSMOPOLITAN SCHOOL OF MUSIC
Preparatory, College, Special and Graduate Departments. Courses leading to Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Music Education. Master of Music and Teacher's Certificate in Music. Music and Theatre Arts. Member N.A. of S. of M.
Florence Aldrich Pinkerton, President
For free catalog write Registrar, 1625 Kimball Bldg., 306 S. Wabash, Chicago 4, Ill.

PHILADELPHIA MUSICAL ACADEMY
Associate Member, NAM. JAN SZANTO, Director
Piano, Voice—Private and Group Lessons
1617 Spruce St., Phila., 3, Pa. PE 5-5053

ISIDOR PHILIPP Master Class
NEW YORK CITY—SEASON 1954-1955
For information write:
ISIDOR PHILIPP
c/o HAROLD BRADLEY W.H.L.D. Studios
Hotel Niagara, Niagara Falls, N.Y.
AFTER October 10th
ISIDOR PHILIPP
Broadway & 47th St., New York 17, N.Y.
HAROLD BRADLEY W.H.L.D. Studios
Broadway & 47th St., New York 17, N.Y.

NEW YORK COLLEGE OF MUSIC
Avard T. Bower, Director
College and Professional Courses—Class and Individual Instruction—Daytime or Evening. Full or Part Time.
114 EAST 85TH STREET Write for Catalog NEW YORK 28, N.Y.

MUSIC CAREERS
PIANO—VOICE—INSTRUMENTAL
Public School Music—Church Music
Organ—Radio—Television
Bachelor and Master Degrees
ST. LOUIS INSTITUTE OF MUSIC
7707 Bonhomme Avenue—St. Louis 5, Mo.
A non-profit educational institution providing an intensive program in music education. Write for catalog.

BUTLER UNIVERSITY
JORDAN COLLEGE OF MUSIC
A rich tradition, a progressive philosophy, an outstanding faculty, complete accredited curriculum leading to degrees in Music Education and Performance.
JORDAN COLLEGE OF MUSIC (Box 621), 1204 North Delaware Street
Indianapolis 6, Indiana

MUSIC CAREERS advertisement continued (small print with seal) ST. LOUIS INSTITUTE OF MUSIC 7707 Bonhomme Avenue—St. Louis 5, Mo. (Seal) Nationally Approved.

(End of right page ads)

(Note: The image shows a two-page spread from a magazine. On the left page there is a decorative banner reading "GRADED Christmas Collections" with holly leaves and berries; below it are lists of carol books with descriptions and prices, and an ad block for Thomas Music Company and various music teacher supplies, practice pipes and music readiness program offerings in boxed sections. The center columns contain an article titled "IS THERE AN 'ITALIAN' METHOD?" continued from Page 15, composed of dense paragraphs about Italian singing methods, breathing, resonance, exercises, diction and teaching philosophy. The right page continues the article "HIGHLIGHTING HIGH FIDELITY" and contains numerous boxed classified-style advertisements for American Conservatory of Music—Chicago, Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, The Cleveland Institute of Music, Cosmopolitan School of Music, Philadelphia Musical Academy, Isidor Philipp Master Class, New York College of Music, St. Louis Institute of Music, and Butler University's Jordan College of Music. The typographic layout includes small serif text columns, boxed ads with bold headings, and some decorative logos and seals.)
Description of non-textual images:
- Left page, top-left: A rectangular advertisement for Shenandoah Conservatory of Music. At the top left of the ad is a small black-and-white photograph of a woman seated at a piano, shown from the side.
- Lower left portion: A boxed advertisement for Peabody Conservatory with a small decorative divider line and text in several centered lines.
- Left page center-left: A boxed directory-style column titled "WHERE SHALL I GO TO STUDY?" containing many small boxed listings of teachers and studios; no photographs, just text laid out in small boxes and columns.
- Right page, top-right quarter: A boxed advertisement with heading "Your Child May be one of the four hundred to Win a Cash Prize and gold medal ..." with a small decorative border and centered text. Below that is a long column of classified ads under the heading "CLASSIFIED ADS", laid out in narrow column format.

Full text extracted from the image (accurate to visible content):

SHENANDOAH
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC

In the Beautiful Shenandoah Valley

PIANO
ORGAN
WOODWINDS
VOICE, STRINGS
PUBLIC SCHOOL MUSIC
B.MUS. IN CHURCH MUSIC

B.MUS. & B.MUS.ED.DEGREES
• MEMBER NASM
• ACADEMIC COURSES
• CO-EDUCATIONAL
• CO-OPERATIVE WORK STUDY
• RELATED COURSES
• B.MUS. IN CHURCH MUSIC • LOW RATES

For catalog write
Shenandoah College, Box E, Dayton, Va.

PEABODY CONSERVATORY
COLLEGE OF MUSIC

(School of the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University)

Beginners to Advanced—Piano, Organ, Composition, Orchestral Instruments,
Voice, Public School Music, Bachelor of Music, Teacher
Diplomas, Preparatory Department. Also Special Courses in
Music Therapy and Radio Broadcasting.

Edmund Sherwood, Director
8 East Mt. Vernon Place, Baltimore 2, Md.

WHERE SHALL I GO TO STUDY?

RICHARD McCLANAHAN
Teacher of Piano
Studio: 33 W. 57th St., N.Y.C.
American Conservatory graduate;
Pupil of Mme. Tetrazzini, etc.

EDWIN HUGHES
PIANIST-PREPARED FOR PUBLIC
PERFORMANCE AND FOR COLLEGE,
UNIVERSITY AND CONSERVATORY
TEACHING POSITIONS
117 East 57th St., New York 22, N. Y.

HELEN ANDERSON
Teacher of 'Successful' Pupil
Methods—Technique—Tone—Interpretation
Special Teacher—Harmony—Improvisation
46 W. 72nd St., N. Y. C.

Mme. Giovanna Viola Hüb
(Teacher)
120 West 72nd St., New York City.

CRYSTAL WATERS
Pupil of Dr. Kullak, Paderewski.
Teachers: Paderewski et al.
Studio: 508 West End Ave., New York 24, N. Y.

LEOPOLD WOLFSON
Composer, Pianist and Teacher
Hotel Ansonia, 73d St. & Broadway.
Phone: GR. 6-9272

WILLIAM FISCHANDLER
Pupil of Hammond
Teacher—Accompanist
144 West 58th St., New York, 19 N.Y. Phone: SPring 7-3775
(Also in later text: Treatments, etc. [text too small])

ERNESTO BERUMEN
Concert Pianist and Teacher
Shakespeare Villa, 111 W. 58th St., N. Y. 19

The pianist JAN HOLCMAN is
now accepting pupils for private instruction.
New York City and suburban studios.
For information address Jan Holcman,
5 E 94th St., New York 28, N. Y.

CLARENCE ADLER, Mus. D.
Teacher of furthur [sic] piano technique and interpretation.
Specialties: coach for singers, etc.
216 Central Park West, New York, N.Y.

ALFRED TROEMEL
LEOPOLD AUER'S rules-principle
and original teaching ideas.
M A N H A T T A N S C H O O L O F M U S I C
8 E. 109th St., N.Y.C.
238 E. 10th St., N.Y.C.

HAROLD BRADLEY
Assistant to ISIDOR PHILIPP
W. H. L. D. STUDIOS
Hotel Niagara, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

LUCIUS DUNCAN
Professor of Piano, Syracuse University
Pupil of Busoni
P.O. Box 434, Rochester, N.Y.

ISABEL HUTCHESON
Teacher of Piano
Pupil of Harold Bauer
128 E. 74th St., N.Y. City

HARRY EULER TREIBER, Mus. D.
       Voice and Piano
Studio: 507 208 Nantasket Ave., Boston, Mass.

EDNA GUNNAR PETERSON
Concert Pianist—Artist Teacher
1430 Carolhaven Ave., Fort Worth, Texas

MAE GILBERT REESE
Piano
1330 N. Crescent Rd., Hollywood, Calif.

HAROLD HURBLUT
Member Juilliard Faculty
Teacher—Pianist—Competitions
529 West 57th St., N.Y.C.

IRENE WEISSENBERG TINTNER
Pupil of Cortot and Busoni
Private Lessons, Interpretation
230 West 77th St., N.Y.C.
Tel. BElmont 6-5407

LOREN YAGGY
Teacher of Piano
Formerly Head of Piano Dept., Ithaca Conservatory
207 South Main St., Ithaca, N.Y.
Phone: WAtkins 5-2238

(Other small boxed items continue; some text too small to render at full accuracy in this reproduction.)

NEW RECORDS
(Continued from Page 18)

set containing the complete opera.
From the solid orchestral reproduction of the overture to the impressively
realizing bits of the trombone, all forces combine to create a rare operatic recording. Raoul Jobin (Romeo) and Janine Micheau (Juliette) have never been heard to better advantage on records. Alberto Erede conducts the chorus and orchestra of the Paris Opéra in an authentic French production. (London LLL 1B)

De Falla: El Retablo de Maese
Pedro
El Amor Brujo

Reviewers who use stars, numbers
or orchids to designate outstanding recordings would use five for these
maximum symbols in evaluating this
disc. The hi-fi is to the type musician's taste; the surface noise has almost
been removed. The packaging meets every
modern requirement. Both the pieces are
included and both give evidence of the
tact of the performers and conductor.
Master Pérez (Papp) and the other
soloists are as fine as ever. Orquesta
Estable del Teatro Colón, Buenos Aires. Conductor: Atahualpa Yupanqui.
(Calandra CAL 1202) (This entry may be slightly different in the printed page.)

The favorable impression made by
youthful Geza Anda's first Angel recordings are underscored by three
new releases. Aided by Angel's superior technical know-how, Anda and
London's Philharmonic Orchestra
under Alceo Galliera have produced
wide-variations of these popular classic works that rank with the best, though
in overall effectiveness the Rachmaninoff has an edge over the Tchaikovsky. Anda finds room on both
records for solo encores. (Angel
35093 and 35083)

Bartók: Piano Repertory

Columbia has launched Hungarian-born Gyorgy Sandor in a
recording project that eventually
will encompass the entire piano literature of Béla Bartók. Hungarian
composer who was Sandor's teacher.
Following the recording with the
Philadelphia Orchestra of Bartók's
Concerto No. 2, Sándor enters
with a disc containing Allegro Burlesque, Romanian Folk Dances, Four
Children (20 of the 26 pieces), El
Por Hugonianne [sic? — possibly "El Pequeño Romance"] and
the Hungarian Peasant Songs and
dance forms. Sŕndor is delightfully
thoroughly at home with this music
(Columbia ML 4680)

Debussy: La Mer
Ravel: Rapsodie Espagnole

Here is a disc clearly different in
tone and fluent in the spirit of 1914
releases. There are many standards of
excellence; this record meets that
standard in a high degree. The
Philharmonia Orchestra under
Herbert von Karajan; the engineer,
Ing. Amadeo; the Hess [text unclear]. The record
is clean. La Mer is especially distinguished. Hear and see the orchestral
texture in this recording is a splendid
accomplishment, the performance is
unforgettably intense. (Angel 35099)

Squeeze-Baxter (writer?) [text fragment uncertain]

Mozart: Serenade No. 10 in B-flat
Major for 13 Wind Instruments, K. 361

This is an excellent recording of this
work with a first-class ensemble. The
clarity and precision are outstanding,
and the balance between the winds is
remarkable. (Columbia ML 4845)

Bach and Handel Chamber Music
A delightful collection of Bach and Handel chamber works
played by a distinguished group of
artists. The sound quality is excellent,
and the interpretations are tasteful and
insightful. (Decca LX 8001)

The five-minute concluding paragraph
speaks of the Bach and Handel album
and cites careful editing and attention
to detail.

Rachmaninoff: Piano Concerto
No. 2 in C Minor
Tchaikovsky: Piano Concerto No.
1 in B-flat Minor

The warmth and musical properties of the
finest present-day discs. (Decca
DL 8573)

Mozart: Concerto No. 12 in B
major, K. 414
Mozart: Concerto No. 27 in B
major, K. 595

The style of the music relaxed performance is sometimes called
"Viennese" Mozart. Neither the pian...

[Text runs into small print details about artists; some lines telescoped.]

PRESENT AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
IN CHORAL MUSIC
(Continued from Page 17)

sensitive as to its basic character-
We would seem that at the present
we stand at the point where our adv...
tances in technique are notable, our
need for stylistic awareness obvious,
and yet there are in the study of choral
music, with the world and in
particular in the schools, no shortage
of educational problems. The principal
need is education to a wider and more
intelligent approach to choral music
as an art form. Chief among the
goals is to cultivate a wide interest in
the music itself by the general public
and in the schools where necessary so
that the choral art can achieve a proper
place in the musical life of the nation.

There is a further area in which
choir leaders may take stock, that is the
actual business of choral conducting
from the point of view of technique
and its role in the training of singers.
In many choirs it is possible to achieve
a high grade of musical performance
with comparatively little rehearsal time,
implying economy of effort. There
is however a need to enlarge the scope
of choral repertoire and to present
to the singers music of greater technical
difficulty and artistic value. The modern
choral conductor needs a knowledge
of the vocal instrument and an awareness
of its problems in group singing. The
use of singers' breathing, tone formation,
and ensemble training are becoming
more skillful and scientific. The
conductor's basic task is to bring about
a uniformity of tone and rhythmic
accuracy together with a sense of style
in phrasing and dynamics. This can
be accomplished by careful score study,
by the use of correct rehearsal techniques,
and by stimulating the singers' imagination.
The conductor must himself be grounded
in a sound musical education and must
possess a range of musical tastes adequate
to the varied repertory to be presented.
For large audiences is likely to tend
toward his principal reward.
This implies no necessary change in
the musical aim. Technique should
be carefully developed as an
aesthetic end; the cultivation of taste
is the greatest skill of which
he is capable; however, there is im-
creasing interest in the modern present
attitudes of the public which have developed
in our over-proportionate with per-
formance-presentation and the growth
of lesser degree of skill should be
regarded; generally, this part of the
profession requires more time and
attention than most people suppose.

[This article continues to discuss training, public performance, youth choirs, the influence of radio and recordings, the role of the school, and concludes with an emphasis on the necessity of extending choral music education and improving the quality of performance.]

THE END

All ages
All Grades

Your Child
May be one of the four hundred to

Win a Cash Prize
and gold medal

in the
Guild Recording Festival

October 1 enrollment begins. Write for details to

National Guild of Piano Teachers
(Founded 1929 by Irv Allison, M.A., Mus.D., LL.D.)
Box 1113
Austin, Texas

CLASSIFIED ADS

HARMONY, Composition, Orchestration,
ARRANGING. Long experience. Orchestral
ideas. Teach or assist. T. R. Derrick, 134
Cedar Ave., S. A. T. Louisville, Ky.

LEARN PIANO TUNING—Simplified,
written course. Arrange own terms. Write
The American School, Box 123, Elkhart,
Ind.

VIOLIN MAKERS, AMATEURS,
REPAIRERS—Tune, repair, appraisals,
expert work. Studio 251, 3 East 43d St.,
New York 17. Phone: PLaza 8-3200.

SWING PIANO—BY MAIL. 20 easy
arrangements of popular hits. $1.00.
Music Dept., Box 431, Caldwell, N.J.

UNDERGRADUATE, graduate, teacher
training in music. Send for free catalog.
Musicians' Institute, 1610 N. La Brea Ave.,
Los Angeles 28, Calif.

HAND BUILDING EXERCISES FOR
PIANISTS—Exercises for finger action,
arm, shoulder and wrist; piano studies
that help. $1.00. Write: Piano Service
Co., 304 E. 61st St., New York, N.Y.

LEARN PIANO IN YOUR OWN HOME.
Complete course. Dr. A. L. Heiney,
P.O. Box 111, Portsmouth, Va.

TRAINING FOR MUSICAL SUCCESS;
Harmony, theory, arranging, composition,
sight-reading. Income guaranteed for
graduates. Send for catalogue. American
Conservatory of Music, 944 N. La Salle,
Chicago 10, Ill.

PIANO TUNING—Complete home study
course; also repair work and regulation.
Write for free bulletin. The Schaff Piano
School, 225 E. 57th Street, New York 22.

PIANO TUNING SIMPLIFIED. Play
by ear, arranging, transposition. Send
for free leaflet. Music Repair Dept.,
P.O. Box 138, Geneva, N.Y.

RECORDING TAPE, plastic, 7- and
3-1/4-in. reels, 1- and 2-track. Also
reel-to-reel players and recorders. Write
for prices. Tape Masters, 1234 S. State St.,
Anytown, U.S.A.

BARGAINS IN PIANO VIOLINS AND
VIOLA CASES. All at discount. Catalog
free. American String Co., 27 W. 24th St.,
New York 10.

USED VIOLINS ANOTHER IDEA:
Violins reconditioned for schools. Quality
instruments at modest prices. Send for
list. School String Service, 441 S. Dearborn
St., Chicago.

MODERN ITALIAN VIOLINS. Amato
model, full size; 3/4 and 1/2. Beautiful
tone. Special price $35.00. Six months'
terms. Fine guarantee. String House,
6830 Broadway, New York 27.

THE SCIENTIFIC MUSIC TEACHER
Wants material for magazine. Send
articles, experiences, students' results.
Box 447, Columbus, Ohio.

NEWPORT—Classical, Ampico player
records, classical; orchestral, piano rolls.
Write Box 144, Newport, R.I.

MUSIC LIBRARY SERVICE
Scores and parts, symphonies, concertos,
orchestral music and chamber music. Lists
sent. Musical Library Service, 120 W. 45th
St., New York 36.

FOR SALE—Soldier's harp, 27 strings,
wood frame. Ideal for folk. $9.00.
Box 904, Station B., Seattle, Wash.

FEMALE VOCALISTS—Only many
openings for sopranos and altos. Apply
with samples, references, salary required,
for broadcast work. Big Music Concern,
Box 270, Grand Central Station, N. Y.

FOR PIANO TEACHERS ONLY—We
want your students for definite low cost
recording plan. Send full details. Guild
Recording Service, Box 1113, Austin, Texas.

BACK POPULAR SHEET MUSIC TO
1950s, 1940s. 1930s. New lists. Box 761,
New York 19, N.Y.

[Several short classified items continue down the column listing private teachers, repairs, records, books for sale, exchange and services. Some lines are too small to be read distinctly from the reproduction.]

ETUDE—OCTOBER 1954

(Page markers at the bottom: left page 62, right page 63)

(Note: Some lines, small boxed type and fine print inside the "WHERE SHALL I GO TO STUDY?" boxed listings and the lower portions of the new records review contain very small text that is not fully legible in the provided image; the major headings, advertisements and readable paragraphs have been transcribed above.)
MY PIANO WORKSHOP BOOKS by Margaret Dee

BOOK 3
"MORE TO LEARN"
The whole concern of MORE TO LEARN is the approach to making beautiful sounds. To make a variety of tonal color, and to punctuate these inflections with the proper physical approaches.

BOOK 4
"READY TO PLAY"
This book does not deal with harmony or technique, but makes a diagnosis of piano patterns, and suggests mental impressions of keyboard designs, comparisons of similar and varied and symmetrical places.

FOUR STEPS IN THE WORKSHOP EXPERIENCE OF THE PIANO STUDENT
BOOK 1 THE GET ACQUAINTED BOOK
BOOK 2 ON WE GO
BOOK 3 MORE TO LEARN
BOOK 4 READY TO PLAY

Price $1.25 Each
Pennsylvania state tax 1%
VOLKWEIN BROS., INC., PITTSBURGH 22, PENNA.

"MY PIANO WORKSHOP BOOKS" have covered four steps in the workshop experience of the piano student. They are very necessary steps, and all must be accomplished, though some students may not be able to go directly from one book to the next. Everyone must "Get Acquainted" with all the fundamental details. We need note reading approaches and a very important issue is tone and its technique.

CREATIVE TECHNIQUE
Step by Step with keyboard harmony.
Mrs. Dee advises 10 minutes every day is the answer to the problem.
$1.25

JOLLY JINGLES
Up to the minute piano stories written for boys and girls who want to play the piano—have fun—make beautiful sounds—play for company.
$1.00

PIANO SOLOS by Margaret Dee
Lone A Long Cowboy 2nd Gd .35
Riding The Range 2½ Gd .40
Two Of A Kind 2nd Gd .35
Comical Fingers 2½ Gd .40

CHRISTMAS CAROLS (With Words)
A Collection of piano solos with a new twist by Margaret Dee.
Will be ready soon. 75c

Mail Orders Solicited

To realize the value of these publications by Margaret Dee you must see and play the pieces. We have enough of this modern material to mail you a set to look over at your leisure with return privileges.

VOLKWEIN BROS., INC., PITTSBURGH 22, PENNA.

AN ORGAN BUILDER'S OPINIONS
(Continued from Page 24)

in the interest of clear phrasing and interpretative eloquence. Mr. Skinner has well-defined likes and dislikes. He does not share the Bach-worship that is almost universal among organists today. He does not hesitate to assert that the recital programs nowadays have too much Bach on them. He thinks (I am sure) that every program should have works by American composers. From this fact I surmise that his musical tastes are not confined to Pre-Bach, Bach, and Hindemith. I am sure Mr. Skinner does not disparage any more than I do the excellent music which falls into those three categories. But it is always possible to have too much of a good thing.

Mr. Skinner has lived through, and taken part in, the great revolution in organ-building that has occurred in the last half century. He views somewhat the romantic tendency to incorporate in the organ the orchestral effects which belong to the orchestra. He admits the use of orchestral devices in certain contexts where they are needed, but he resents the attempt to make the organ a bad imitation of the orchestra. He is especially opposed to the use of strings and orchestral colors which have no honest place in the organ. Mr. Skinner believes that any clever organ-builder will adapt the old time stops to modern needs and will make the most of the organ's poetic and spiritual qualities.

Mr. Skinner, to be frank, is an optimist. He is chiefly a man of faith and not of doubt. He believes in the possibility of a new and better organ-building which will be neither an anachronism nor a slavish imitation of something else. He believes that honest workmanship, combined with intelligent taste and sound musical feeling, will produce new instruments of real distinction. He is opposed to the sensational and the unmusiclike. He wants the organ to be an organ, and not a conglomeration of effects which serve only to bewilder the ear.

There is no department of organ-building which Mr. Skinner has not considered. He has been consistently skeptical of gadgets and of "novel" additions. He has an honest contempt for much of the advertising pseudo-technical phraseology that passes for musical progress. He is not against invention. On the contrary he encourages it; but he demands that it be in the service of music and not of the showman. He believes in solidity, in craftsmanship, and in careful thought about the needs of musical expression.

Mr. Skinner's experience with recitals and with tonal design in civic and church organs has given him a wide outlook, and in addition he is a practical man who has had to reckon with budgets, with building conditions, and with the musical needs of congregations. He has in short the rare combination of the artist and the practical mechanic. He is in sympathy with the best modern tendencies in organ-building which aim to combine flexibility with nobility of tone.

I recall my first visit to the Skinner shop. It was in the early days when the firm was first gaining recognition. The scale-rooms, the voicing benches, the winding rooms, the great chest-rooms, the pipe-works and the tone-rooms—all impressed one with the thoroughness of the enterprise. Mr. Skinner received me cordially; and no word or action served to remind me that he was already famous while I was only a youngster with a book and a few notions. Over the years his friendship became more and more a matter of genuine affection. I have known him now for many years, and I hope the younger readers who have known him only through the pages of journals and reviews may come to know him as I have.

In letters, written as he approaches seventy, Mr. Skinner's force remains as keen as ever. His viewpoints upon the art and the craft of organ-building are no less strong than they were in the day when the larger and more important tonal revolutions were under way. He has not been content to accept the easy solution. He has gone into the workshop and studied the problems at first hand. He is not one of those detached critics who only complain. He has been doing.

The Pitman Wind Chest. This incorporates the near-perfect Casavant system of pneumatic valves to supply the pipes, which Casavant has graciously made available to Mr. Skinner. To this was applied the Pitman short-action, replacing the old wooden action. It is now used on both sides of the Atlantic.

The Whiffletree Swell box. This important tonal development includes: the Flute Mirabilis, the Vox Cumae, the Flauto Mirabilis, the Gamba Celeste, the French Horn, the Celeste, a new English Horn, a French Horn, a new English stop—the Orchestra Diapason, etc. The versatility of selection and the musical values of these stops have been the subject of wide comment.

There is probably no organ builder in America who has more intimate knowledge of orchestral tone and of orchestral balance than Mr. Skinner. He is not an imitator, but rather a synthesizer of the best qualities of many schools. His is the balanced point of view which endeavors to unite the strength and clarity of the German organ with the color and agility of the French and the singing quality of the English.

Like all great builders, Mr. Skinner has been through many vicissitudes. His early work was sometimes ridiculed by those who could not understand the aims of his enterprise. But time has justified much of his creed. He has been a pioneer in many ways and his name stands high among the great builders of our day.

(The article continues beyond this page.)

64 ETUDE—OCTOBER 1951

Announcing

THE ADA RICHTER PIANO COURSE

A New Approach to the Problems of Piano Teaching

Ada Richter is one of the foremost piano pedagogues of our time. She has been responsible for many progressive developments in the field of piano teaching. Her published works constitute an imposing list of original compositions, teaching books and simplified arrangements of popular melodies.

This method is aimed at the pupil. The books are his; they are prepared at his level and, in earlier volumes, include pictures for coloring and cut outs to paste up—occupations which carry over from his normal play pattern.

Pre-Schools and Kindergarten . . . . . 60¢
Early Beginner—Book I . . . . . 75¢
Early Beginner—Book II . . . . . 75¢
Early Beginner—Book III . . . . . 75¢
Early Beginner—Book IV . . . . . $1.00

Supplementary teaching material:
"KEYBOARD GAMES"
(To be used with the last half of Book I and all of Book II) . . . . . 75¢

SEE IT AT YOUR DEALER

M. WITMARK & SONS

619 West 54th Street, New York 19, New York

Easy
Effective and
Entertaining
for the STUDENT

Clear
Comprehensive and
Contemporary
for the TEACHER

(Page number 65 at bottom right)

Description of non-textual elements:
- The right-hand page is an advertisement laid out with large, elegant typography: a decorative script word "Announcing" at the top, followed by a very large serif title "THE ADA RICHTER PIANO COURSE." The layout uses centered text for the title and left- and right-aligned blocks of copy, with a vertical list of prices and a small boxed-like emphasis for the publisher name at the bottom.
- The left-hand page header "MY PIANO WORKSHOP BOOKS" is set in bold sans-serif uppercase with "by Margaret Dee" in italics to the right. The page contains several thin rules (horizontal lines) separating sections and small decorative bullets/points for listing the four-step book series. There are no photographic images on either page; the pages consist of typographic elements and columned text.
Compiled, Arranged and Edited by Denes Agay

The PIANORAMA Series

three : uniquely comprehensive piano books
for the medium grades

PIANORAMA
OF AMERICAN
CLASSICS

An unusual compilation which gives a perspective of stylistic developments during the 18th and 19th centuries. Twenty-three selections by native American composers, including: Frances Hopkinson, William Billings, Horatio Parker, Edward MacDowell, Victor Herbert and others. Biographical sketches of each composer. Suitable for use as a recreational album for adults or as a collection of supplementary material for students. Intermediate grade.

PIANORAMA
OF THE WORLD'S
FAVORITE DANCES

From the wealth of instrumental and vocal dance music, minuet to rhumba, Mr. Agay has selected twenty-two compositions, each representing a different dance form. The stately strains of the minuet and gavotte — the exuberant beat of the rhumba — even a polka are included, chosen not only for their characteristic rhythm, but also for their appealing melodic qualities. Piano teachers, physical education and dance instructors will find the album extremely valuable. Medium grade difficulty.

PIANORAMA
OF EASY PIECES
BY MODERN
MASTERS

In this book Denes Agay presents thirty pieces for piano solo by twenty-five of the leading composers of the 20th century. Some of the composers included are: Stravinsky, Debussy, Ravel, Prokofieff, Bartok, Kodaly and Puccini. Most of the compositions are original, some are arranged, while others have been revised to reduce their difficulty. All the selections are refreshingly melodic, clothed in imaginative, harmonic settings. The collection offers ideal material for study, recital and sight reading sessions, for the pianist of moderate skill.

(theodore presser company, bryn mawr, pa.)

Non-textual description:
Full-page vintage printed cover with a cream paper background and worn, slightly browned edges. Large title typography at the top in black; several torn-paper style blocks of muted orange/pink contain descriptive paragraphs. Dotted decorative rules separate sections. On the lower left a solid orange circular dot precedes the publisher name. The left edge shows the book spine and slight creasing; overall the page has a slightly aged, textured look.