Gardner-Webb University
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University

The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957                                   John R. Dover Memorial Library

1883

Volume 01, Number 03 (December 1883)

Theodore Presser

Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude

[icon] Part of the Composition Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, and the Music Performance Commons

Recommended Citation
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 01, No. 03. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, December 1883. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/2

This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.

Description of non-textual image(s):
- A small circular multicolored icon appears immediately before the words "Part of the Composition Commons...". The icon is roughly the size of a bullet point and contains an abstract pinwheel or swirl motif with distinct colored segments (appearing as blue, orange, and green tones) around a central white area. It looks like a stylized, modern emblem used to denote collection or commons membership. There are no other images on the page.
[Faint, partially legible line at very top, center:]
[illegible/faded decorative motto]

THE ETUDE

DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE TECHNICAL PART OF THE

Piano Forte

VOL. 11                       DECEMBER, 1883.                       NO. 3.

THEODORE PRESSER,

EDITOR AND PROPRIETOR,

LYNCHBURG, VA.

(There is a small circled number or mark centered below this line that appears to read "24" but is faint.)

TRADE SUPPLIED BY
S. T. GORDON & SON,
13 EAST FOURTEENTH STREET,
NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

Description of non-textual images and ornamentation:
- A wide decorative border surrounds the entire page. The top border is an illustrated frieze showing a low landscape with small houses, trees, and ornamental repeating motifs; beneath it is a narrow band of repeated circular and floral rosettes.
- Two tall vertical columns (one at left edge, one at right edge) frame the page. Each column is designed with an Egyptian revival motif: fluted shafts, decorated square panels inset at intervals, and ornate capitals topped by small plant-like finials. The column bases are decorated blocks with intricate geometric and floral patterns.
- Decorative corner blocks at the bottom left and right incorporate repeating geometric, floral and foliate ornament, each including a circular medallion motif inside the patterned square.
- Decorative flourishes (stylized foliate scrolls and small rosettes) appear on either side of the words "Piano Forte," forming horizontal ornament bars that extend outward.
- A small ornamental horizontal divider with a central floral rosette appears between the date/issue line and the editor’s name.
- The typeface for "THE ETUDE" and "THEODORE PRESSER" is heavily stylized, with decorative serifs and shadowing; other headings use narrow caps or ornamental small caps.
- A rectangular box with border ornament near the bottom encloses the "TRADE SUPPLIED BY" and address text; the box corners and surrounding bands are filled with repeating floral/foliate patterns.
24

THE ETUDE.

THE ETUDE,
LYNCHBURG, VA., DECEMBER, 1883.

Issued Monthly in the interest of the technical study of the
Piano-forte.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES, $1.00 PER YEAR, (payable in advance.)
Single Copy, Twenty-Five Cents.

Specimen Copy sent to any Address for Five Cents.

Extra Copies will be furnished to Teachers at one-half the
regular Retail Rates. Postage Free.

All letters should be directed to
THEODORE PRESSER,
1026 Main Street,
LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA.

CLUBBING RATES
WITH
THE ETUDE.

WE WILL SEND THE ETUDE AND
ANY ONE OF THE FOLLOWING
PERIODICALS FOR ONE YEAR,
POSTAGE FREE, FOR THE
PRICE NAMED IN THE
LAST COLUMN.

New York Observer, (new sub'rs) . . . $3 15 $3 15
Harper's Magazine (monthly) . . . 4 00 4 00
Harper's Weekly . . . . . . . . . 4 00 4 25
Harper's Bazar . . . . . . . . . . 4 00 4 25
Harper's Young People . . . . . . 2 50 2 50
Century Magazine . . . . . . . . . 4 00 4 50
St. Nicholas . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 00 3 50
Atlantic Monthly, (new sub'rs) . . . 4 00 4 20
The Quarterly Review, London,
(new subscribers) . . . . . . . . . 4 00 4 20
The Edinburgh Review, quarterly,
(new subscribers) . . . . . . . . . 4 00 4 20
Weekly Visitor . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50 2 00
Youth's Companion (new sub'rs) . . 1 75 2 25
Home Journal . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00 2 50
New York Tribune, weekly . . . . . 1 25 2 00
New York Tribune, semi-weekly . . . 2 50 3 00
Christian at Work (new sub'rs) . . 2 70 3 00
Godey's Lady's Book . . . . . . . . 2 00 2 50

The Christmas and New Year Holidays are
at hand, and millions of presents are to be
made, in testimony of esteem, friendship and
love. A flow of generous spirits come over
us all at Christmas-tide. The question is—
what shall I buy? What more desirable and
appropriate present can be made than one of
the above, elegant and leading periodicals?
The price with THE ETUDE is only a trifle
more, and with two of the leading ones there
is no additional cost for THE ETUDE. You
may order the one sent to your address, the
other to a friend.

The Etude is now sufficiently established in
form and character for teachers to judge
of its merits, and with the arrangement, that
music dealers generally have copies for sale our
free list will be entirely withdrawn. Hence,
none but actual subscribers may expect copies
to be sent to them.

With the New Year's issue two works of
importance will be commenced in the columns
of THE ETUDE, "Wieck's Studies for the
Piano-Forte," and "Kullak's Instructive Edi-
tion of Bach's Lighter Compositions." The
latter work has already undergone a transla-
tion by the editor. These works will appear
from month to month until completed, and
they will be published in sheet form.

The premiums offered in last month's issue
are, as intimated, withdrawn with this issue,
except the "Urbach Prize Method for the
Piano-Forte," which we will continue to send,
as heretofore, with THE ETUDE for one year
for $2.00, with 25 cents in addition to prepay
postage. For particulars of this admirable
instruction book see advertisement in another
column.

The publisher of THE ETUDE, to further cir-
culate the publication, will agree to send regu-
larly each month to any music teacher who is
a subscriber, copies of THE ETUDE, on sale,
allowing 50 per cent. deduction from retail price
—settlement to be made quarterly—January,
April, July and October. All unsold copies
to be returned in July. Teachers agreeing to
the above arrangement will inform the pub-
lisher how many copies of each monthly issue
are so desired, giving for reference the music
dealer from whom they regularly purchase
sheet music.

A charming little volume, entitled "Music
Study in Germany," has found its way to our
table, from the facile and graceful pen of Miss
Amy Fay; and we are quite sure could the
fair authoress but faintly imagine the benefit
she has conferred, her skilful pen would rarely
be idle. A more delightful correspondence upon
life in Germany, and music study in particular,
we have never opened, and it is with earnest plea-
sure we commend it to teachers and pupils as
highly inspiring as well as instructive and enter-
taining. The writer conveys her reader to the
very cradle of music, and step by step, in
company with the greatest masters, leads him
up the sublimest heights of musical entertain-
ment and culture. Miss Fay has handled her
subject with the dextrous ability of a thorough
connoisseur, and her book deserves a place in
every cultivated home.

Copies of THE ETUDE will be found at every
music store throughout the United States.
Teachers desiring to use THE ETUDE for the
technical development of their pupils can thus
purchase THE ETUDE conveniently. If the
dealer whom you favor with your orders for
sheet music has been omitted, be kind enough
to send word to this office, and arrangements
will be made with your dealer that copies can
be purchased.

Many inquiries have been made for our
prices to teachers, where a number of copies
are purchased. Our reply is, that we furnish
extra copies at 50 per cent. from retail price
(25 cts.), postage free, provided the cash ac-
companies each order. THE ETUDE is, per-
haps, the cheapest form in which piano studies
can be purchased. With the liberal discount
made there is no reason why every progressive
teacher in the land should not use it. Try the
plan.

ON THE USE OF PIANO STUDIES.

In no department of Piano Teaching do
teachers more differ than on the use of Etudes.
These differences resolve themselves mainly
into four distinct systems of teaching.
First, those that teach Etudes to excess;
they know nothing else than technic, they treat
music as a trade, as something purely mechani-
cal, their sole aim is to overcome difficulties,
somewhat as one would delight to climb the
dizzy heights of a mountain with no object in
view whatever than simply performing the phys-
ical feat, whilst the pleasure or grandeur of the
scenery is something never thought of.
Second, those who teach Etudes promiscus-
ously: to those the Etudes have become a
fixed institution, a habit. They find that others
use them, so they drop blindly into the custom
and ask no questions; the pupil's need is not
consulted in their selection, anything will an-
swer, only so as it is an Etude.
They give any Etude that happens to be con-
veniently at hand, whether it be difficult or
easy, or whether the pupil is advanced or be-
ginning. This class of teachers know not what
they are about. They have a deplorable lack
of judgment as to the object of Etude study.
They only succeed in making the pupil de-
spise one of the most important parts of piano
study.
I know of a teacher who is so indiscriminate
in the use of Etudes, that if he happens to start
a pupil with the set of 160 eight measure Etudes
by Czerny, he knows no stopping until the
whole 160 are gone through with, and just as
likely as not he will give next the set of "100
Novelle Etudes," in 10 books, by the same
composer. The same with "Prects;" when Mo-
zart's Sonatas are begun the whole of them
must be studied, so with Clementi, Haydn, etc.
Two or three years of hard study can pass in
this way without much technical or artistic
progress being made. The time devoted to this
promiscuous use of the Etudes is a compara-
tive waste.
Third, those who do not teach Etudes at all.
Where there is an absence of attention to tech-
nical study you will find an absence of other
important things. A teacher of this kind can
not have much interest in his pupils or his pro-
fession; you will find him among the lower
ranks of his profession or driven from it alto-
gether; without some technical work in teach-
ing it is like salt without the savor.
Under the 4th class will come all I have to
say on Piano Etudes. I will only have in view
in this article those Etudes that are intended to
hasten the command over the key-board and
the control of the muscles used in playing.
Etudes for rhythm and expression, and the
higher artistic Etudes of Liszt, Chopin, Ruben-
stein and others come more properly under
some other head.
Why study Etudes? Are they necessary?
In answer to this I will say that it is necessary
for a perfect performance on the piano, that
every joint, tendon and muscle with their va-
rious combinations from the top of the shoulder
to the tips of the fingers must be subdued
and fitted for the keys of the piano; this should

[End of visible text on page]

Description of non-textual images and ornamentation:
- At the top center of the page is the title THE ETUDE in large display type with small decorative rules above and below. The page number 24 appears at the top left. 
- There are several thin horizontal rules and section-dividing lines used throughout the page. 
- A small ornamental fleuron or typographic ornament appears between columns and near some headings as a decorative separator. 
- No photographic or pictorial images are present; the page is entirely text with typographic decorations.
THE ETUDE.

be the aim of every pianist. Our arms and hands were never intended by nature to manipulate the keys of the piano; they have, so to speak, to be remade, fitted and moulded to do their work. If our fingers were all of equal length and of like movement, if they possessed equal strength of muscles, if they could spread out like a fan, conveniently, or if we had as many fingers as keys to be manipulated, were the hands as easily opened as closed, or did not piano playing require the use of so many joints, then special technical study would not be so necessary. To overcome these natural difficulties of the hand is the work of Etudes; they seek out the weaknesses and defects of the natural hand and offer remedies; hence from natural construction of the hand Etudes are necessary. They are, as we all know, the staunch support of the virtuoso when he reaches the dizzy heights of mechanical proficiency, and they are the power that raises the amateur to distinction. The selection of Etudes should require the teacher’s closest judgment; as a physician prescribes a particular medicine for a particular disease, so a teacher should give Etudes to remedy a particular defect in playing, or to strengthen some weaknesses, or to advance some peculiarity in technic. In other words, there should be a direct aim in every Etude given. For a teacher to give all his pupils the same Etude, is somewhat as some physicians do, they prescribe one and the same medicines to all patients. This mode of teaching involves a close study of the pupil. No two hands will be found alike; some will be found long and tapering, when passages requiring long stretches or extended groups of notes, will be done with little practice and require no special attention. Others again, you have observed, have such a peculiar formation of wrist that octaves are quite natural, and a melody is as easy taken in octave as single. Some have naturally a perfectly formed trill, and can produce a charmingly rounded trill, while the rest of their playing is scarcely worthy to be heard. The composer and pianist, Field, worked for years to produce a satisfactory trill. He became disgusted, however, when one day, while in a music store, he heard a rough-looking lad producing an exquisite trill far surpassing any effort of his. It had such an effect upon him that he gave up the trill altogether, and that is why in his nocturnes and other compositions the trill is conspicuous for its absence. It is true that for some reason of temperament or construction of hand, certain things are natural to some pupils, while others are secured through a severe course of technical training. A conscientious teacher finds what is troublesome to a pupil and deals only with those things until the difficulty is overcome. But the tendency of many teachers is to leave beautifully untouched that which is difficult, and make a show with that which the pupil has already. It is always the aim or the Etude given, so that his mind can be directed solely on the difficulty it is intended to overcome.

It is related of pianist Anna Krebs, that when she discovers any fault or defect in her playing, it is henceforth wrestled with until it is entirely overcome. One thing that most of us are guilty of, and that is, we change the Etude just when the pupil is beginning to be benefitted by it. A few good Etudes thoroughly mastered will do more good for technical development than whole books only half studied. I know of a music school that sends forth some very fine players, and they use only one Etude for each division of technic, one for scales, one for arpeggios, and one for octaves, etc. Every Etude should be played until perfect ease and fluency are attained. The committing of it to memory should be one of the earliest processes. The study of mechanical proficiency should not be hampered by anything like notes. Entire freedom from printed page cannot be too highly recommended. The frequent change of Etude with the difficulties only half mastered will often do more harm than good; it will enhance carelessness and create bad habits of study.

How often is it that mistakes and faults are only noticed after weeks of practice. That the more we practice the more the weak places are brought out, false notes, wrong fingers, indistinctness, wrong time, etc., seem only to rightly show themselves after considerable command of a composition is acquired that we conclude that our playing is growing worse and worse, when the truth is, we are beginning to rightly comprehend the composition. The mistakes were there all the time, but in our effort to play in time and strike all the notes we blundered over many mistakes which are doubly difficult to correct than at the beginning of the study.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE STUDY OF THE PIANO-FORTE.
Translated from the German for THE ETUDE.

III.

8. — KEEPING TIME.

Firm time is the trunk and branches, while the tones are the moving foliage of the tree. Music without time is foliage detached from branch and trunk, which a zephyr can scatter in disorder — a wild sport of the wind.

Steady, firm time is the sympathetically developed skeleton of the body. Music without time is, therefore, a monstrosity, a body without proportion.

Time is the determining, regulative understanding, through which music, as feeling, is brought out to clear recognition. Music without time is feeling without understanding, in itself indistinct; in short — crazy music.

The mere spiritless rattle of time, however, is the tree without foliage, a lifeless skeleton, understanding devoid of feeling; a body without a soul.

The player often, in violating time, believes he has divided off the time correctly if the two hands only come together. The error lies in the unequal counting of the measures.

The counting of time must never be regulated by the playing, but the latter must always conform to the former, for the former is the measure, while the playing is the thing measured. An arm will always remain arm, to which the stuff measured must accommodate itself.

9. — SELF-HELP.

The pupil must learn, too, know for himself, what is to be done in order to make progress, for he who does that only in that which is communicated by the teacher will progress heavily. There is a vast difference between taking up an imitated thought and original thinking; the latter only is fruitful, since in the original thinking it springs, it will continue to grow. He who has desire and courage to search and also that skill to obtain, and unpleasant work, and has only to lose himself with the master, to so speak, before the eye, the nature of every thing lies open before us all; it only needs the desire and capacity of perception for it; and to this end every advantage to be taken of all things possible will be brought within reach for the pupil. Every piece can be expected of no one.

10. — TONE SHADING.

Where the aim is to separate, clearly and distinctly, the melody from the accompaniment, think, by way of comparison, that the accompaniment is only the paper, the melody, however, the writing or drawing on it. We should perceive the latter without thinking of the former; i. e., the melody should be heard consciously, while the accompaniment unconsciously. When accenting the melody, which should, indeed, sound full, but soft, imagine that the keys are an elastic air cushion that is pressed down with the finger tips. Another similar comparative representation is fitted for the combined tone-production, where loud and soft tones are to be played by one hand at the same time. Imagine the inside of the hand to be hollow, and feel as if half filled with heavy sand; hence, when loud tones are to be struck, it should feel as if the sand inside had rolled to those points, and pressed heavily, while the soft tones remain light, empty and feeble. The same, in this instance, typifies the strength, which moves from nerve to nerve, in order to concentrate its activity in particular places.

11. — THE FINGER MEMORY.

The fingers have their own peculiar kind of memory, just as the head has its. If this is not true, how is it that a piece, which has been previously learned, cannot somehow be played, even though the head possesses it, and could write out every note from memory.

12. — DISGUST (WEARINESS).

Often when pupils have worked upon a piece for a certain period they grow weary with it, and even in practice they do not make any advancement. Not considering the mania for a change, superficially and the like, (which often co-operates), even good and persevering pupils are sometimes affected by it. The reason for this is, that the finest compositions are mostly regarded from the pedagogical side, while the aesthetical is attained only (and often incompletely) with trouble. In certain cases it is to be insisted upon, in spite of the disgust, that an unfinished piece must be completed, (just as soon as one is convinced this can be done), yet, in exceptional cases, it is well to lay aside, for a longer or shorter time, a piece that has been played for a long time, for it would not be continued with any vigor or freshness of mind. Such disgust is often guarded against by others (by playing it to them) and the player hears it with a new ear, and rejoices over it with them.

PIANO-TECHNIC.

Written expressly for THE ETUDE.

The subject of Piano Technic is one of vast importance to the complete and higher growth of Piano-Forte playing, toward that ideal standard which the earnest musician and teacher should ever strive for in every possible way, and the attainment of which should be a primal object of his musical life.

Although we have had some valuable expositions of the subject of late, (see proceedings of the National Music Teachers’ Association recently held in Providence,) and while yet much is undoubtedly done in this direction by teachers and theorists in their daily professional work, still comparative little agitation of the subject appears in our musical papers, and in musical circles, and those who have best neglected its study are the very ones who are now most urgently demanding instruction and better treatment. I will make no promises to go into all details, but I shall, in the future numbers, treat of the matter in any specific sense, and offer merely a concise and comprehensive plan for the study of Technic. WHILE TECHNIC IS A MEANS TO AN END, IT IS NOT THE END ITSELF. This is a cardinal doctrine of my musical teaching; and, before remarking further upon it, I must impress upon the reader that technic is not the aim of music, but its servant. Technic, properly understood, is the means by which the musical idea is realized; it should be developed, directed and controlled by musical intelligence. The mere acquisition of facility, without a guiding artistic purpose, is not only useless, but may be positively injurious. The pupil who cultivates technic for its own sake, and thinks that the attainment of mechanical perfection is the highest result possible, will very likely, in the end, lose that subtle musical feeling which forms the soul of art. True technic is never displayed for its own sake; it is always sacrificed to the expression of musical thought.

(There is a small typographic ornament here.)

[Note: The page header reads "THE ETUDE." The page number "25" appears in the upper right corner. The page contains a small decorative typographic ornament or rule between sections; no photographs or pictorial images are present — only printed text and typographic ornamentation.]
I can do that, but the page is densely printed and some lines are small and faint in this single full-page image. To ensure a completely accurate, error-free transcription I need either:
- a higher-resolution scan of the full page, or
- separate cropped images of each column (three or four crops, one per column) so I can read and transcribe every line precisely.

Which would you prefer? If you want me to proceed now with a best-effort transcription from this image as-is, I can do that immediately — but there may be a few uncertain words or characters in the smallest/faintest lines.
2

THE ETUDE. 27

No. 1.
Allegro moderato. ♩ = 116.

II.

[piano and treble/bass musical notation across four systems with fingerings and dynamics]

poco marcato il basso.

crea cen do.     rallent.

riten.     (p)     in tempo.

dolce.     ral-len-tando.     pp     smorzando.

[end of No. 1 music]

No. 2.     PREPARATORY EXERCISES TO No. 3.

a. A useful technical practice can be derived from this preparatory exercise by changing the key with every degree on which the figure appears, using not only the major and minor modes, but also the two forms, (melodic and harmonic) of the minor scale.

The following example may illustrate my meaning,—

[short musical example] etc.,

the only change of fingering occurring on the scale of B, left hand.

b. The difficulty in this etude, lies in executing the last four notes of the first measure distinctly and evenly. It is recommended to practise these few notes from fifty to a hundred times in succession, first on the table, then on the key-board until the fingers move with the utmost ease and swiftness.

RIGHT HAND.

[treble-stave musical exercise with finger numbers above notes]

LEFT HAND.

[bass-stave musical exercise with finger numbers above/below notes and further staves continuing the exercise]

Description of non-textual images:
- The page is a printed piano étude containing musical notation across several systems. The top half is a complete short etude labeled No. 1 with treble and bass clefs, multiple measures of arpeggiated and repeated semi-quaver/ quaver patterns, finger-number annotations (small numerals near many notes), dynamic markings (p, pp), tempo/direction words in Italian (Allegro moderato, rallent., riten., in tempo, dolce, smorzando), slurs, staccato dots, and crescendo/decrescendo hairpins. There are measure barlines, double bar at the end, and a few editorial pencil/ink markings and a diagonal pen/ink stroke near the last system on the right.
- The lower half is headed No. 2 PREPARATORY EXERCISES TO No. 3 and contains a paragraph of instructional text followed by short notated examples: a small melodic example, a line noting "the only change of fingering occurring on the scale of B, left hand," then further instructions (paragraph b). Below are labeled practice staves for RIGHT HAND and LEFT HAND showing long scalar and arpeggiated exercises with finger numbers and beamed notes spanning several measures. The page has light aging and scattered small specks and smudges, and page number "27" printed at the top right.
28                                      THE ETUDE.                                       3

DESCENDING.

No. 3.

Allegro. ♩ = 100

mf
sempre legato.

mf

dim.

R. H.
L. H.

en  do.

(Also present throughout the page: numerous small finger-number markings (1–5) above and below notes; treble and bass clefs; standard musical notation including staves, notes, beams, slurs, ties, bar lines, brackets for the grand staff, and pedal/bracket indications.)

Description of non-textual image content:
- A single page of printed piano sheet music titled "THE ETUDE." The page number 28 is at the top left and a small "3" at the top right.
- Top portion shows an exercise labeled "DESCENDING." consisting of several systems of treble-staff runs and descending arpeggiated figures with fingerings printed above many notes.
- Middle of page introduces "No. 3." followed by a grand staff piano etude. The tempo marking reads "Allegro. ♩ = 100." The left-hand and right-hand parts are written on the usual two staves connected by a brace. Dynamics such as "mf" and the instruction "sempre legato." appear near the start. Later measures include "mf" again and "dim." as a diminuendo marking. Finger numbers (1–5) are heavily notated for passagework.
- Lower systems include more broken-chord accompaniments, arpeggios, slurs, and staccato/legato articulations. Small annotations "R. H." and "L. H." mark hand assignments in places. The final system contains rising and falling arpeggiated passages leading to a concluding bar.
- The page shows wear/aging: light speckling and faint printer artifacts, but the printed musical notation and main text headings are clearly legible.
THE ETUDE.
29

No. 4.

D MAJOR.          A MAJOR.

(Repeated exercise numbers and staff labels)
1.    I.           1.    I.
2.    I.           2.    I.
3.    III.         3.    (staff label)
4.    III.         4.    (staff label)
5.    I.           5.    (staff label)
6.    III.         6.    (staff label)
7.    I.           7.    (staff label)

Additional printed/textual elements on the page (as visible)
- Numerous small fingering numerals (1 2 3 4 5) printed above and below notes throughout the page.
- Parenthesized small numbers such as (1), (2), (5) scattered near notes and slurs.

Description of non-textual images
- The page is a printed sheet of piano exercises laid out in two vertical columns. The left column is headed "D MAJOR." and the right column is headed "A MAJOR." Each column contains seven short arpeggio/etude examples numbered 1 through 7. Each example spans a grand staff (treble and bass clefs joined by a brace), showing arpeggiated, wave-like note patterns formed by many beamed notes and grace-like turns. There are frequent slurs, dynamic marks and fingering numbers indicated near many notes. Vertical barlines and final measure bars appear at the ends of systems. The overall look is that of a 19th-century engraved music page with small typographic headings and finely detailed musical notation.
30

THE ETUDE

EXERCISES ON THE DIMINISHED CHORD.
(Nos. 2 & 3.)

The diminished chord is composed of three or four notes which are invariably a step and one half distance apart; hence, a step and one half from any given starting point the same tones will again be used in forming a similar chord, only in another position. The first chord, for example, in No. 00 is composed of C, E-flat, F-sharp and A; a step and one half from C is E-flat, which will be observed is composed of the same tones. The next chord in regular order according to this principle will be F-sharp, and the next A, and so on indefinitely.

It is to be further observed that there are only three different diminished chords possible. The ones on C, E-flat, and F-sharp (D flat), and D. The rest are only different positions of these. The frequent occurrence of these diminished chords in composition makes a knowledge of the foregoing principles very serviceable in playing. The peculiar character of this chord should be engraved on the mind and notice taken of it when listening to music. In this way one chord after another is stored away in the mind. This chord, from its striking individuality, is admirably adapted to begin that kind of practice.

No. 2.

a. Play the hands at first singly with a firm stroke.
b. In striking the chords the use of the wrist is more proper without the aid of the forearm.
c. Discard the printed page as soon as you can, and continue to play these chords inward and downward through two octaves until the fingers grasp the correct group of notes with all ease and grace; then to this add velocity; and finally play with every variety of shading, legato, staccato, forte, piano, etc.

[Musical staff with treble and bass clefs showing a sequence of diminished chords across measures, fingerings indicated above many chords. Numbers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 printed above some measures. A bracketed footnote below the staff:] * Play same chords in left hand an octave lower with fingering indicated below each chord.

No. 3.

a. This is only one of the many varieties of forms the preceding chords suggest. Advanced players can add the octave to each broken chord.
b. One of the most effective, and by no means easy derivatives of the above, is the contrary motion, in which one hand moves a half step while the other a whole; thus: [musical example continuing in contrary motion].

It is evident that the same chord is taken in both hands.
c. It is often an advantage to play one measure over many times until it sounds rounded and even, before going to the next.
d. The weakness of the fourth finger is shown up in this exercise. There is nothing left to be done but to endeavor to have each individual tone stand out clearly, avoiding all blurring and indistinctness.

Never fail in using the proper fingering, which one, in this exercise, is strongly tempted to slight. Observe that the third finger is never used.

[Below this, three short systems of musical notation in both hands, numbered 1, 2, 3 (and further measures marked 5 etc.), with finger numbers printed alongside notes. A boxed area at right of one line reads:] Follow previous number

DESCENDING.

[Further systems of musical notation showing descending arpeggiated diminished chords with fingerings and measure numbers 11, 10, 9, 8 etc. At far right of last staff a boxed note reads:] See previous number. Close.

(End of page)

Non-textual images description:
- The page contains multiple musical examples printed on five-line staves with treble and bass clefs, numerous chord symbols, arpeggiated figures, and fingerings indicated by small numerals (1–5) adjacent to notes. The first example (No. 2) is a series of closely spaced block diminished chords progressing chromatically through many positions, with numbers above indicating a long sequence from 1 up to 13 and back down. A footnote asterisk beneath this staff instructs to play the same chords in the left hand an octave lower.
- The No. 3 examples include broken chord (arpeggio) patterns and contrary motion passages where right and left hand move in opposite directions; fingerings are printed for each note and the third finger is conspicuously unmarked in the main pattern. One measure is boxed with the instruction “Follow previous number.”
- The DESCENDING examples show descending arpeggiated diminished chords spanning both clefs, with the left hand often starting low and the right hand echoing above; finger numbers and measure references (11, 10, 9, 8 etc.) are printed above these systems. The final boxed instruction reads “See previous number. Close.”
- Overall the musical notation is detailed and densely printed, with many slurs, stems, beams, and ledger lines; the visual emphasis is on demonstrating the diminished-chord shapes, fingerings, and variations in both hands.
THE ETUDE.                                                               31.

No. 4.

a. In this octave form of the same exercise only the ascending movement is given. It is presumed that enough facility has been acquired to enable the descending movement to be played without recourse to the notes.
b. Use a firm touch with the fourth and fifth fingers, for on these two fingers depends greatly the success in octave playing.
c. Whether to use the fourth or fifth fingers on the black keys is left to the requirements of individual cases.

[Large musical notation for Exercise No. 4: two systems of grand-staff piano notation occupying the upper half of the page. The staves show repeated octave figures and broken-chord patterns. The right hand contains rapid repeated sixteenth-note groupings in the treble clef, often in octaves or with small melody notes above the accompaniment; the left hand provides alternating bass and inner-voice broken chords and octave reinforcement. Many accidentals (sharps and flats) appear above note groups. The notation is dense and continuous across each system, ending with barlines at the right margin.]

No. 5.

a. The melody should sound forth gracefully and not be buried in the reiteration of the notes.
b. Play in a light, elegant manner.

[Large musical notation for Exercise No. 5: two systems of grand-staff piano notation occupying the lower half of the page. The upper system of No. 5 shows repeated arpeggiated sixteenth-note figures under slurs with a clear melodic line emerging and marked fingerings above some notes; the lower system presents broader, flowing broken-chord figures with repeated sixteenth-note patterns in both hands and occasional staccato or accent markings. The page shows slight aging: light speckling, faint smudges, and uneven ink density around the edges and between staves.]
32

THE ETUDE.

No. 5.

a. This exercise was invented for the exercise of the fourth and fifth fingers which from their construction and weakness need constant training. Nature has unfortunately left the outside part of the hand weak and thin, wedge shaped, for it appears that the primary use of the hand is not to strike but to cling hence it is formed to close up. This natural unfitness of the hand for piano playing makes technical practice an absolute necessity. This barrier must be leveled by mechanical means, and technic stands as a grand fortress that seeks vengeance on natural enemies to piano playing, and clears the way into the artistic world.

b. By exciting action in the weaker portion of the hand an increased flow of blood is drawn into that part, giving increased nourishment to the muscular fibres from which an increased amount of muscular power is developed; hence, the more vigorous the exercise, the greater will be the strength.

c. The chords are played with a crisp staccato, while the other hand maintains a firm legato throughout with a strong accentuation.

Description of non-textual image content:
The remainder of the page is a full-page printed piano etude laid out on a grand staff (paired treble and bass staves) spanning many systems from top to bottom. Each system has a left-hand (bass clef) and right-hand (treble clef) staff joined by a brace at the left. The music consists largely of flowing arpeggiated figures and broken-chord patterns, frequently marked with small finger-number annotations (1–5) above or below many notes. There are many beamed groups of semiquavers (16th notes) and some staccato and accent markings. The engraving shows typical 19th-century typography and notation with occasional smudges and light wear on the paper; margins are narrow and the page shows slight spotting and faint creases. The title and numbering at the top are set in a bold, uppercase serif font.
THE ETUDE.
33

No. 6.

a. Commit this exercise to memory as soon as possible, and execute with a light and elastic touch, beginning as indicated with piano and gradually increasing in volume until forte is reached.
b. The main point in the exercise is not the strengthening of the fourth and fifth fingers, but the skip which, occurring in the middle of the figure, must be played without the slightest break.
c. This exercise must not be discontinued until it can be played with elegance, roundness, and velocity of touch.

p
cres.
cres.

No. 7.

a. The tones of the thirds must be struck exactly together and this is done by lifting the fingers equally high.
b. A uniform curvature of the fingers is indispensable to a clean and neat performance of the thirds.
c. The descending order will be found a little troublesome. The left hand will attempt to play the thirds from the finger joints instead of the knuckles, which is wrong; a slower tempo is therefore demanded in descending. Play with a distinct and powerful touch.

Description of non-textual images:
- A full printed piano sheet-music page, titled THE ETUDE at top center with page number 33 at upper right.
- Contains two numbered exercises (No. 6 and No. 7) with multiple systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass staves joined by braces), showing standard musical notation: notes, beams, rests, barlines, slurs, ties, and dynamics.
- Finger-number annotations (small numerals) are printed above and near many notes. Dynamic markings such as p and several occurrences of cresc. (crescendo) appear within the staves.
- Musical material includes repeated arpeggiated figures, broken-chord patterns, and grouped chord passages; No. 6 features repeated figured patterns across several systems; No. 7 features consecutive thirds and arpeggio-like patterns, with some sections containing dense chordal passages.
- The page shows typical printing artifacts and aging: light smudges, uneven ink density, faint faded areas, and small blemishes, with darker smudging toward the bottom and right edges.
34

THE ETUDE

a. The Pedal should be pressed down, in every instance, directly after the chord is struck, and before the fingers leave the keys; and taken up the very instant of the performance of the chord under which the star appears.

b. This prelude should be practised in two ways,— first, by raising the hands at each chord, depending upon the pedal for the production of a pure legato in all the parts, and playing throughout with perfect equality of touch. Secondly : by sustaining and bringing into decided prominence the upper part, which in pieces of this character becomes a distinct melody. The fingers should be raised on the remaining notes of the chord to facilitate playing with greater force with the weaker fingers: producing, without the use of the pedal, the following effect: [small staff example shown]. The pedal should be used, however, as in the first instance.

PRELUDE.*

LEGATO CHORD STUDY WITH PEDAL.

Andante espressivo. (quarter note = 60.) A. D. TURNER. Op. 15, No. 2.

[Music systems with grand-staff notation follow. Under many measures are repeated pedal indications such as:
Ped. * Ped. * Ped. * Ped.
* Ped. * Ped. * Ped.
* Ped. * Ped. * Ped. * Ped.
and similar Ped. and *Ped.* markings throughout the score. Dynamic and tempo markings visible in the music include p, pp, un poco rit., a tempo, 8va, sfz and various articulation marks.]

NOTE: Fingering is entirely left out of this prelude, for the reason that it does not remain the same for both modes of performance. The second way indicated, there are many notes on which the fingers are changed while the keys are being pressed, in order that a smooth and connected performance of the upper part, or melody, may be insured.

*PRELUDE.—A preliminary movement, ostensibly an introduction to the main body of a work, but frequently of intrinsic and independent value and importance. The prelude was for a long period a characteristic portion of the sonata or suite. Bach, whose commanding genius led him to improve upon the lines of his predecessors, has left some masterly preludes in what is generally known as the ancient binary or sonata form; these movements being as important and interesting as any in his suites. See "English Suite" in A minor; Chopin, who was a law unto himself in many things, has left a series of preludes, each of which is complete in itself, and not intended as an introduction to something else. It will be seen by the foregoing remarks that the title of prelude has never been associated with any particular form in music, but is equally applicable to a phrase of a few bars or an extended composition in strict or free style. A. D. T.

This prelude is one of "Six Preludes" designed for the study of the Damper Pedal. Copyright, by A. D. Turner.

Description of non-textual images:
- A small musical excerpt near the top right illustrating the effect produced without the pedal (a single short treble staff with a few notes and a slur).
- The main body of the page is occupied by four large systems of engraved piano notation (grand staves). The music is a chordal, legato study: block chords in both hands, many slurs, and frequent dynamic markings (p, pp, sfz). Numerous pedal indications appear beneath the staves, printed as "Ped." and with asterisks marking pedal release points. Tempo and expressive directions printed in the score include "Andante espressivo (quarter note = 60)," "un poco rit.," and "a tempo." The final system shows an 8va indication and thicker chordal textures toward the end. The overall layout is a typical 19th/early 20th-century printed piano score with engraved notation and editorial explanatory text at top and bottom.
THE ETUDE. 35

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

[Questions pertaining to the study of the Piano-forte will receive attention, and answers appear, usually, in the following month, if received before the FIFTEENTH of the current month. The writer's name must accompany letter to insure an answer.]

M. M. F.—QUESTION 1.—Do small (grace) notes, when made sharp or flat, affect similar large notes in the same measure?

ANSWER.—All notes should be written with the intention of being read at sight; with this in view the small notes ought to be treated exactly as the large ones, for it requires just as great an effort of the mind to strike one as another, whether large or small. There is much carelessness, however, with even the best writers, in this regard, especially when the accessory notes are indicated by marks merely of accidental tones. Those notes indicated by signs should be treated just as if they were written out; i. e., affecting the measure as a full sized note would—see Peters' edition of Hummel's celebrated E flat Rondo, 24 pages—and reversely where the large note made accidental does not affect a turn in the same measure, in Sonata No. 13 of Mozart, Lebert's edition.

2. Does an accidental affect only one octave, or every octave of the tonal system in the measure where it occurs?

ANSWER.—Only on the octave where the accidental is placed, and only with that clef; if another clef is used to represent the same tone the accidental must again be indicated. Also, if the same accidental notes appear again in a subsequent bar, it should be so marked again. Mason's Silver Spring is full of violations of this law. Most salon pieces will be found, on close inspection, to have errors in treating the accidentals. Even Heifetz's inimitable studies are not free from errors of this kind.

C. R. L.—QUESTION.—When is it right to use finger and wrist staccato?

ANSWER.—When single notes are within the compass of five notes, (five finger exercises, short scale passages, etc.), use finger staccato; but when the fingers are extended, (arpeggios, double notes, chords, etc.), use the wrist. Long scale passages are best executed by a combination of both fingers and wrist. Broken octaves, sixths, etc., are produced by the joint at the elbow, the one that enables you to roll the hand around, technically the radio humeral articulation. With these simple principles fixed you are prepared to investigate the various modes of producing staccato effects, which are diverse and complicated. The wrist, which may be used entirely for staccato purposes, has this advantage; the tones are made by one and the same joint, hence possess greater equality than when produced by the fingers, whose naturally weak portions are manifested more by their inferior lines. The reason for this is: The brace or support which the finger on the key, in legato playing, gives the following tone, is gone, and the finger is left entirely on its own resources for strength. If, by the way of comparison, a blow were to be made with the whole arm, instantly the body assumes a supporting attitude, instinctively one leg is placed back of the other, the foot at right angle with the body, the shoulders thrown forward, and all done to give rigidity to the body, that when the blow is made the force is not wasted by the body giving way. In finger staccato there is no foot-hold, so to speak; hence a longer joint like the wrist, that will not give way so readily, is better adapted for staccato playing. Just this very dependence is the inherent strength of the individual finger makes finger staccato an admirable practice. A very serviceable idea can be derived from the three following modes of producing staccato effects: First. The portamento touch, where both foot and curved line are used; let the wrist form a gentle, patting, undulating motion in passing near the keys. They are rather a relaxed than struck, the fingers scarcely leave the key. A good illustration of this kind of playing can be drawn by observing a cat purring; the hand moves with every change of position, but seems to play on the wing, while its weight is only scarcely removed. Second. The medium staccato. Let the fingers be struck by the hand so that the rap can be heard gently. This is the middle style, the fingers are driven deeper in the key and kept close to the keys by additional motion, the added force of the arm being controlled by the shoulder. Third. Full staccato, (marcato touch,) sometimes indicated by elongated dots. Place the hands first over the keys, then bound them with a sudden jerk of wrist and forearm, remove the hands from the keys. An extremely short sound can thus be produced. These three modes are easily learned, but to gain facility much skill is required in their proper place.

M. S.—QUESTION.—Why are the black keys on the piano-forte in groups of two and three?

ANSWER.—The semi-tones between the white keys are unequally distributed; from B to E there are four white keys, from E to B five. Our tonal system calls for two chromatic tones between the former and three between the latter; hence the black keys are disposed in groups of two and three, to indicate their relations. This arrangement is the result of convenience and of the practice of earlier keyboard instruments. The grouping helps the performer to find his position on the keyboard at a glance, and also conforms with the scale pattern of tones and semitones which we use.

VIRGINIA STATE MUSIC TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION.

The meeting announced in the last number of The Etude to take place at Richmond, has been changed to Lynchburg. The dates will be the same, omitting the first evening session. The opening week will then be inserted at Lynchburg, Va., December 27th and 28th, 1888. The Norvell House and Arlington Hotel have reduced their prices to $2.00 per day, to delegates attending the meeting. The programme is not yet completed—F. R. Webb, Staunton, Va.; Aldine S. Kieffer, Dayton, Va.; W. H. Neave, Sali[sbury], N. C.; Louis Schelmann, Lynchburg, Va.; Theo. Presser, Lynchburg, Va., are already down for papers; it is expected that at least four papers will be prepared by the Richmond teachers. There will be no lack of essays, papers, piano and organ recitals, etc. The programme will be printed by the 25th inst., and one sent to every teacher in the State. Holcombe Hall has been engaged for the meeting. Nothing will be left undone that will add to the interest of the meeting. There has been considerable interest aroused by the article in last month's issue, and it is hoped that this first meeting will receive the attention of every music teacher in the State.

The music teachers, more than any other class of professionals, need the quickening spirit that comes from the contact of mind with mind. He stands alone, to battle against those corroding influences that are so destructive to professional life. Monotony, discouragement, ingratitude and ignorance crowd in upon every side. He, alone, is powerless to cope with these difficulties, and, alas, too often falls a victim to these poisoning influences that are so deadly to artistic impulses. The associations of the average music teacher tend to crush his innate love for the noble and good in art, and he turns his face from the worship of the muse. Instead of a live, ambitious and growing teacher, we have a plodding, hum-drum teacher, who carries the heat and burden of the day with a despondent and hopeless spirit.

The direct aim of the Association should be to arouse the teacher from professional lethargy; to send the youthful blood tingling through his veins; to rouse him with new zeal for his work; to drive out the evil and forbidding spirits that have taken up their abode in his soul by the legions; to exhibit to the general public the intellectual powers of the musician, which are far from receiving the appreciation they deserve; to inspire the timid and humble with the dignity and possibilities of his profession; to arm him against the impositions and invasion of the incompetent and impostor; to meet, face to face, his co-laborers, and mutually to unfold their trials and tribulations; to receive hints and exchange ideas relating to the art of teaching. This is the true aim and plan of the organization.

Let those who wish programmes to circulate, or desire information of any kind, address this office, and all information will cheerfully be given. The delegates should meet and be in Lynchburg the night before the opening, December 26th. The meeting will be opened promptly at 9 o'clock A. M.

We append a communication we have received from Mr. Neave in regard to this organization.

Editor of The Etude:—

Dear Sir,—An aggregation of many congenial and conservative persons will inspire all truly musical people with buoyant hopes for the future amelioration of musical affairs in the State. There is a strong tendency in every State to make music more practical and less visionary, and an organization of the right sort will be of the utmost benefit. The Southern Music Teachers' Association has been doing a great work, and it is hoped that the Virginia teachers will follow the same wise plan. Very respectfully yours, W. H. NEAVE.

"For 'multiplicity of counsel begets confusion.' What's everybody's business is nobody's," etc. Very respectfully, W. H. NEAVE. Salisbury, N. C., November 30th, 1888.

Since the above has been written and "set up," the following worthy letter has been received from one of the executives at Richmond, who speaks for all.

Richmond, Va., December 3d, 1888.

Dear Sir,—Your reply to the notice that I had, and I should rather say the circled part, has at last been answered by a call for meeting that will be held in Lynchburg, Va., December 27th and 28th. I have been appointed, with others, to see that all arrangements are made for the convenience of the delegates. The principal teachers of Lynchburg and of Richmond will be present, and it is hoped that such papers, recitals and discussions will be provided as shall give the meeting character and usefulness. I heartily approve of the plan, and shall be glad to do my part in carrying out the objects of the Association. Very truly yours, [signature illegible].

VIRGINIA STATE MUSIC TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION.

A meeting for the purposes of organizing the above named Association will be held at Lynchburg, Va., December 27th and 28th, 1888. Addresses will be read and papers will be presented on the principal questions of the day. The Executive Committee, pro tem., are Theodore Presser, Richmond, Va., and [other names partially illegible]. Those desiring to be present, and who desire to present papers, will please notify the Executive Committee at once.

Theodore Presser, Richmond, Va.
Lynchburg, Va.

LATER.—I have just conversed with Prof. [illegible], and he informs me that Mr. [illegible] of Staunton will be present, and Messrs. [illegible] of Richmond. It is expected also that several of the prominent organists of the State will be present. The Executive Committee ask that any who wish to present papers will send titles to this office without delay. —Editor.

J. Carroll in Chandler.

TESTIMONIALS.

New York, November 3d, 1888.
Theo. Presser, Esq.—I must acknowledge the receipt of a copy of your PRELUDES. I have thoroughly enjoyed and studied them, and I find them most suggestive and useful in my teaching. They are, in my opinion, admirably suited to the purposes intended. Yours respectfully, GEO. T. BULLING.

The characteristic feature of the American life of to-day is the vast amount and indefiniteness of public taste and inclination. The people are musical, but they are not sufficiently trained. The Etude aims to supply instruction, give taste and encourage the art. We welcome the effort and commend your enterprise. —[signature partly illegible]

[Several short testimonials and endorsements follow; a number of names and places are printed in small type and some lines are difficult to read at this reproduction size. They express approval of Mr. Presser's publications and of the aims of The Etude.]

ADDITIONAL ITEMS (bottom of page, small print)

[The lower portion of the page contains brief notices, further testimonials, small advertisements and publication details in very small type. In this reproduction many of the lines are faint and some proper names and minor words are not fully legible. They continue to praise publications, ask for correspondence, and give dates and localities of meetings and recitals.]

Description of non-textual content

- Page header: a horizontal decorative rule, the title "THE ETUDE." in large capital letters centered at the top, with the page number "35" at the upper right.
- The page is laid out in three narrow columns separated by thin rules. Decorative thin rules and small ornaments separate sections and headlines.
- There are no photographic images or figurative illustrations—only typographic ornamentation (rules, small dividing lines and small decorative bullets or points).

Note on legibility

This is a faithful transcription of the readable text on the scanned page. A few short lines and signatures in the lower and right-hand columns are printed in very small, faint type on the original and are not fully legible at this scan resolution; where wording or names were indistinct I have indicated as such or left them described rather than risk incorrect letters. If you need a higher-accuracy, full transcription of every single small line (including the faintest print and signatures), please provide a higher-resolution scan or a zoom into the lower-right portion and I will transcribe those remaining lines exactly.
36

THE ETUDE.

THE STUDY OF HARMONY APPLIED TO PIANO PLAYING.

For The Etude.

By J. Carroll Chandler.

It is a good sign of intelligent appreciation of the true character of the subject, that, in most of our musical educational institutions, a distinction is made between classes in "harmony" and classes in "theory," — paradoxical as this distinction may seem at first sight.

The great obstacle against which harmony teachers have to contend, is a prevailing notion that harmony is a purely theoretical study — something to be learned from books or lectures.

People know that what is called the "science of harmony" is a subject in handling which there is a good deal to do with general or special laws and rules, and hence they think that a mere theoretical understanding of the matter is all that need be aimed at.

This is very far from being the case, or at least, we can say that, even if a sound theoretical knowledge of the subject is all that is desired by the pupil, such knowledge can by no means be acquired by purely theoretical study without a great deal of actual technical practice.

If harmony is a science, it is one which, like chemistry or physics, can be adequately studied only by practical experimenting. Exercises in thorough-bass and harmony (including the various orders of counterpoint), are not mere examples of general principles and should not be treated as such; they are just as much exercises, in the full sense of the term, as scales, arpeggios, five-finger exercises, and studies in piano-forte-playing.

What laboratory work is to the study of chemistry and physics, what the dissecting-room is to the study of medicine, exercises in figured-bass and in harmonizing a given cantus firmus are to the so-called "theoretical" study of harmony.

A certain amount of technical skill must absolutely be acquired — a certain technical skill in writing according to the first principles of the science in applying practically the various rules, before the student can hope to have that familiarity with the very elements of the subject, without which a profitable understanding of subsequent rules and theoretical matters is not to be attained.

There is unfortunately, a class of would-be harmony students who, with an eye solely to practical results, go just as much too far in the opposite direction as the larger mass do in the so-called theoretical one.

What harmony-teacher has not had pupils come to him, saying: "I don't care about a scientific knowledge of harmony; the why and wherefore do not interest me in the least. What I want is that you should teach me a good set of chords in several keys, so that I can improvise my own accompaniments." This sounds very practical indeed.

The only trouble is, that the hopeful student will end by knowing and being able to do about as much as when he first began.

No, theory and practice must go hand in hand in the study of harmony, as in other things. No one can be called even a theoretical harmonist who cannot write a correct and well sounding exercise; no one can be called a practical harmonist who cannot tell why this or that progression is good or bad; and let all students remember this: when an exercise is written, it is not finished and done for, any more than a scale on the piano-forte is finished and done for when it has been played through once. A thing must be learned before it can be readily practiced.

When you have got far enough on to play your scale with the right fingering, and without stumbling, then you can begin to really practice it.

You say you have written this harmony exercise correctly, and that you have worked upon it for an hour? Well and good! Now, go and practice upon it and other similar exercises until you can write any of them correctly in two minutes.

One often hears the question asked: "What good will it do me to study harmony?" This question of course is looked at from different standpoints.

Yet in this case, one can answer: It will do you the good of teaching you what music really is. Training in the science of music will no longer be a mere ear-tickling, nor a vague excitement of the physical emotions; and you will be able to distinguish between the worthy and unworthy. A knowledge of the laws of the art will give you something worthy of the name of musical taste, and you can utter an opinion which will not be an insult to every musician.

In fine, you may possibly be able to teach common sense about music, and not make yourself ridiculous in the eyes of every right-minded musician, as the writers of some musical novels do.

What is it that makes that great pianist admired and respected all the civilized world over, while this other one, who can do things with two fingers which the first cannot dream of doing, is merely known as a brilliant executor? The main reason is this:

The world is fast growing sick of performers who are not musicians; and the time will come when it will be just as sick of music-lovers who know nothing about music. The time has already come when people had best take the art of music seriously, or not at all; and, to take it seriously without some knowledge of it, is like attending lectures on the integral calculus, without having any knowledge of algebra.

EDITORIAL NOTES AND CURRENT NEWS.

The following official notice, from the Music Teachers' National Association, will be of interest to every teacher of music:

It is very much desired by those who are deeply interested in the Music Teachers' National Association that the list of membership should contain the names of as many of the representative musicians of the country as possible, and especially those who have not been members. On the other hand the association should be freed from all the dead, and postal, and non-active members; and it is desired that the membership roll shall be kept as an accurate register. The executive committee respectfully recommend that all members shall be required to pay their annual dues in order to remain upon the rolls, and that members failing to pay for two successive years be dropped. The annual dues are fixed at One Dollar. Application for membership should be made to the Secretary.

E. M. Bowman, President,
St. Louis, Missouri.

W. F. Heath, Sec. and Treas.,
Fort Wayne, Indiana.

N. C. Sturtevant, Cleveland. [Note: some committee names and localities in the original are partially faded and difficult to read exactly.]

The Eighth Annual Meeting of the Music Teachers' National Association will be held at Cleveland, Ohio, on the first Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of July, 1884.

Liszt is about to publish a work on the Technique of the piano-forte. It is to be in three volumes, and will represent the work of many years of the great virtuoso. THE ETUDE is endeavoring to procure some of the pages in proof form, and issue them in this country, perhaps before the work appears in Germany.

A worthy and promising feature in the musical activities of the South is the annual convocation of musical societies from different cities of Virginia and North Carolina. The next meeting will be held in Petersburg, Va., at the end of May, 1884. The programme will include Mendelssohn's "Song without Words," "Fair Ellen," Max Bruch's; March and Chorus; Tannhäuser; Handel; Hallelujah Chorus; Hændel. Mr. H. Nolteius, of Petersburg, Va., is an able and energetic musician, and is the moving spirit in the scheme. Societies from the two States are invited to participate.

The Urbach Prize Method is much larger and heavier than the original work, weighing almost twice the amount of the German edition, hence the postage will be twenty-five cents. The revised edition of fifteen numbers, as heretofore announced, our first installment is exhausted, and all orders will have to be sent for the new number. Every teacher reading THE ETUDE should procure it. It is sent with THE ETUDE for one year for the retail price of the book, $2.00, postage extra.

The teachers of Virginia will hold their first Annual Meeting in this city, on December 27th and 28th. A similar move has been started in North Carolina. Success to all such enterprises!

We will adopt the plan of most journals in the land of beginning a new volume with the New Year; hence, our next issue will appear as Vol. 2, No. 1. Let every one who is not a subscriber begin now with the New Year.

What an encouraging thing it is for young America that some of the best piano teachers in the country to-day are Americans!

[Small notices and committee lists follow; some names and brief items are partially faded in the scan and are reproduced above to the best legibility.]

[The remainder of the page contains articles, anecdotes and musical notes. The right-hand column contains a long anecdotal account of hearing a pianist — a vernacular narration concluding with the witness's emotion at the playing. The following is a transcription of the more legible portion of that narrative:]

"he'd tore the insides clean out, and scattered 'em to the four winds o' heaven.'

'Played well, did he?'

'You bet he did, but don't interrupt me.' When he first set down he peered to see that my little 'bout playin', and wish he hadn't come. He would fiddle a little on the treble, and towdle-oodle-oodle down on the bass—jest foolin' and bouncin' the thing's jaw for bein' in his way. And I says to a man settin' next to me, 'What sort o' a fool playin' is that?' And he says 'Heish!' But presently his hands commenced chasin' one 'nother up and down the keys like a parcel o' rats scamperin' through a garret vurry swift. Parts o' it was very sweet, though, and reminded me of a sugar squirrel turnin' in the wheel o' a candy wagon.

'Now,' I says to my neighbor, 'he's showin' off.' He thinks he is a doin' of it, but he ain't got no idee of doin' no plan o' nothin'. If he'd play me up a tune of some kind or other—

'But my neighbor says, "Heish!" very impatient.

'I was just about to git up and go home, bein' tired of that foolishness, when I heard a little bird warbling up away off in the woods, and a callin' sleepily-like to his mate, and I looked up and I see that Rubinstein was beginnin' to take some interest in his business, and I set down agin. The music began to make pictures for me faster than you could shake a stick; to tell tales like the story-books, and to start me all sorts o' feelin's— it jest totted me like I was a child wherever I pleased, and showed me all kinds o' things and notions, and that is the way the music should be. It was the peep o' day that come in the grass, some birds waked up, and the wind begun to blow gentle and fresh, some comrades in the orchard, the same song that I remember hearin' in the spring when I was a small boy. The man began to cry; I saw the tears in his eyes; and they come thicker and thicker, and presently I knowed it was goin' to be a great piece. People begun to rush and there was a hush. I thought as I had never felt no such trembles. I kinder felt as if the music was comin' into my house, and that my heart was bein' took away from me. I felt like a bird in a cage that is waked up, an' a child that is home after a long time, and it was the first time in my life I ever heard such playin'. And I says to my neighbor, "That's music, that is!"

'But he glared at me like he'd like to cut my throat.

'Presently the wind turned; it begun to thicken up, and a kind o' gray mist come over things; I got low-spirited directly. Then a silver road begun to fall. I could see the drops touch the ground; some flashed up like long pearl ear-rings, and the rest rolled away like round ribs. It was pretty, but melancholy. Then the pearls began to tremble into long strands and necklaces, and they made a road into thin silver streams running between golden grasses. I could see the fine road went sewing down the hill-side into the valley, and made a brook that flowed on till it come to the sea.

'And then there was such a swell o' notes—my God!—it made me feel so great. It was like a great big ocean, and then it swelled, and rolled back, and there was a voice come out through the music like the supplication o' an angel—and I thought o' my wife and my children as they had been years ago—and the tears come into my eyes again, and I felt as if I was back in my old home and a little boy, and my mother was within, and she was singing to me. They say that Robinson and I, we looked at one another in the dark, and two crowed together like two old fools, and that we had tore the insides clean out, and scattered 'em to the four winds o' heaven.'"

RUBINSTEIN'S PIANO PLAYING.
[Short humorous anecdote/sketch text and a small vignette follow — transcribed as best legible:]

"Jud., they say you heard Rubinstein play in New York?'

'I did in the cool.'

'Well tell us about it.'

'What! me? I might as well tell you about the creation o' the world.'

'Come now, no mock modesty. Go ahead.'

'Well, sir, he had the hands—biggest, strongest, caty-cornered hands; they were like a saw in the teeth o' a scythe—he chopped like that, you see; and when he wanted to make one o' those low chords you know, he put his weight into it like a man drivin' a stake into the ground. He would do such things as you never see, and then again he would draw a tone as soft as the drift o' a snow, as you might call it. He had such a look, too; sometimes he would be playin' as if he was a child and sometimes as if he was a giant. When he came to a sudden change he would make such a face, an' give such a pull, as if he was tearin' all the stars out o' heaven."

[The last portion of the anecdote and some small lines in the cartoon vignette are faint and partly obscured in the scanned image. The above reproduces the most legible sentences.]

[End of page transcription.]

Description of non-textual images and page elements:

- Page header: a large decorative title area across the top reading "THE ETUDE." The page number "36" appears at the top left. The header includes typographic ornamentation consistent with a 19th-century periodical.

- There are column rules dividing the page into three columns of dense editorial and feature text.

- Near the lower center/right of the page is a small circular vignette/illustration associated with the item "RUBINSTEIN'S PIANO PLAYING." The vignette shows a small round portrait-like image (likely a stylized head-and-shoulders of a man at the piano or a caricature), surrounded by a small ornamental border. The image is small, monochrome, and printed with halftone/woodcut-style dots; details are indistinct in the scan but it serves as an illustrative spot for the short humorous anecdote beneath the editorial columns.

- Decorative type ornaments (rules, small fleurons) separate headings and sections.

Notes on legibility: This transcription reproduces the page text to the best of ability from the scanned image. Some short lines, names of minor committee members, and a few words in small, faded type near the center-left and in the cartoon caption are faint or partially obscured in the image; where words were not clearly legible they are either omitted or rendered as the closest readable approximation. If you would like, I can attempt a higher-resolution crop of any specific column or section to capture faded names or unclear phrases more precisely.
HOLIDAY ADVERTISEMENTS. 37

[Left column, top - boxed image of sewing machine attachments with label:]
"DOMESTIC"
SEWING MACHINE CO'S
ATTACHMENTS.

THE ABOVE CUT
Shows the Extra Attachments
NOW GIVEN WITH EACH
"DOMESTIC."
Each Piece Made of Fine Steel and Silver
Plated, and Attached to the Ma-
chine Without the Use
Of a Screw.

HOLIDAY GOODS!
D. B. PAYNE,
Who for many years has taken the lead in this depart-
ment, is now opening one of the most elegant and attrac-
tive assortments of CHRISTMAS GOODS he has ever had
the pleasure of offering to the public, consisting of
Valuable Books!
in various styles of binding, suitable for old and young
readers.
WRITING DESKS
IN VELVET, LEATHER, WALNUT, &c., at from $1
to $15.
Work Boxes, in Plush and Wood,
for 50 cents to $10.
AUTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPH ALBUMS,
VERY CHEAP.
Brackets, Picture Frames, Bibles, great variety, Prayer
and Hymnal, very handsome Hymn Books for the differ-
ent Churches.
Christmas & New Year Cards
in great variety, from 5 cents to 50 cents; Gold Pens, Pen-
cil Charms, &c., and many
FANCY ARTICLES
too numerous to mention.

[Center column, top:]
J. D. HOBBIE,
GENERAL AGENT,
THE LIGHT RUNNING
"DOMESTIC!"
SEWING MACHINE.
---------
OFFICE. EIGHTH ST., JUST ABOVE MAIN,
LYNCHBURG, VA.

[Center column, lower - ornament and poem heading:]
The Season's Greeting.
WRITTEN FOR THE ETUDE,
BY MRS. C. J. M. JORDAN.

HARK! the chimes of golden bells
Through the air a pean swells;
Sweetest songs of holy joy
Every heart and tongue employ.
Lo! upon the distant hills
Light is breaking—radiance fills
Earth's dark places—bog and fen
Echo, "Peace, good will to men!"
May Heaven's smile your steps attend,
While to each I would extend,
Kindly greeting—words of cheer,
HAPPY CHRISTMAS—GLAD NEW YEAR!

[Right column, top:]
Diamond Hill Confectionery,
ANGELO MAURO,
Cor. 14th and Grace Sts.

ELEGANT CHRISTMAS CANDIES,
a rich supply of all varieties of
FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC FRUITS,
CIGARS,
Bonbons, and all the delicacies of the Holiday season,
can be had in abundance by calling on me.

C. B. FLEET,
DRUGGIST,
823 MAIN STREET,
Lynchburg, . . . Virginia,
OFFERS A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF
ELEGANT CHRISTMAS GOODS,
HAND MIRRORS,
Toilet and Dressing Cases, Perfumery, Brushes, Wall
Pockets, &c.
If your lips chap send 5 cents for a CHAP STICK.
It never fails to cure.

Non-textual image descriptions:
- Top-left boxed image: A rectangular, framed illustration of a case containing sewing machine attachments. The lid pictured has the label "DOMESTIC" SEWING MACHINE CO'S ATTACHMENTS. Inside the open case are multiple metal tools and attachments laid out in compartments — small pliers-like tools, screwdrivers, presser-foot type pieces, and other small metal implements, illustrated in dark ink with highlights and shadows to suggest metal surfaces.
- Decorative elements: Ornamental flourishes surround the name "J. D. HOBBIE," and a small ornamental divider or vignette (a diamond/leaf motif) separates the center column sections above the poem. There are also small decorative rule lines beneath some headings.
38                                                          HOLIDAY ADVERTISEMENTS.

The Southern Jewelry House.

F. D. JOHNSON & SON.

802 Main Street, - - LYNCHBURG, VA.

An elegant assortment of goods in our line for the Holidays. Full stock of

Fine Watches, Diamonds and Jewelry.

ALL THE NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON.

Call and examine, or send for what you wish. Can fill the bill to please young, middle-aged and old. No trouble to show goods. MONOGRAM PINS for gents and ladies gotten up in first-class style and very cheap.

Give us a call.

F. D. JOHNSON & SON, JEWELERS,
802 Main St., Lynchburg, Va.

FANCY GOODS
FOR
THE HOLIDAYS.

J. B. JENKINS,
510 Twelfth Street, Cor. Grace, LYNCHBURG, VA.

A complete assortment of GROCERIES, and a full stock of BOOTS and SHOES. A large variety of

CHRISTMAS PRESENTS,

Which we will take pleasure in showing all who call

806 MAIN STREET 806

IS THE PLACE TO GET

Fine Whiskies, Brandies, Rum, &c.,
FOR CHRISTMAS.

W. C. GLASS & CO.,
SUCCESSORS TO J. J. MAHONE.

$5,000 FOR $1.00.

Dismal Swamp Lottery Company
OF NORFOLK, VA.

SECOND GRAND DRAWING
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 20TH, 1883.

LIT. C. BANDEL,
RESIDENT AGENT,
806 Main Street, - - LYNCHBURG, VA.

[Continued from page 36.]

heart, ready to look any man in the face; and not afraid of nothin'. It was a circus and a brass band and a ball, all goin' on at the same time. He lit into them keys like a thousand of bricks; he give 'em no rest, day nor night; he set every living thing in me a going, and not bein' able to stand it no longer, I sprung into my seat and just hollered,

"Go it, my Babe!"

Every blamed man, woman, and child in the house riz on me and shouted, "Put him out; put him out." "Put your great-grandmother," an' gizzily-gray-'greenish cat into the middle of next month!" I says, "Tear me of you dar! I paid my money, and you just come a-ridin' me!"

With that some several policemen run up, and I had to simmer down. But I would a fit any fool that laid hands on me, for I was bound to hear Baby out of me.

He had changed his tune again. He stopt, lighted his pipe, and tied his frock and combed the key-board. He played soft, and low, and solemn. I heard the church bells over the hills. One by one the stars rise. The great organ of eternity began to play from the world's end to the world's end, and all the angels went to prayer. Then the music changed, the water, full of feeling that couldn't be spoke, much less told about, began to drop—drop, drop, drop—clear and sweet, like tears of the rain into the lake of glory. It was sweeter than the day I was born, and sweeter than the sweet tongues of June. I could have set with powdered silver and sweet diamonds. It was too sweet. I tell you the audience cheered, and the louder the band he wanted to sneer. Much oleogreen, but I suppose you wouldn't interrupt me.

I've stopt for a minute or two to fetch breath. Then he got mad. He run his fingers through his hair, he shoved up his sleeves, he opened his coat-tail a little further, he drug his stool, he leaned over, and, as he just went for that old planner, he slap her face, he boxed her jaws, he pulled her nose, he pinched her ears, he scratched her cheeks till she fairly yelled. He knock her down and stomped on her shameful. He bellowed like a bull, she bleated like a calf, she howled like a hound, she squealed like a pig, she shrieked like a cat, and then she wouldn't let her up. He run a quarter-stretch down the low-grounds of the basin, till she got clean into the bowels of the earth, and you heard thunder galloping after thunder through the hollows and caverns of perdition; and then he flung back his right hand after his left, fell to and was away out of the true into the wilds, where the dogs was finer than the pints of cambric needle, and you couldn't hear nothin' but the shudders of 'em. And then he wouldn't let the old planner go. He for-and-to, like a cuss o'er first gentleman, he cuss o'er first lady, he called them two-headed, two-breasted, and everything else he could think. He had the large hole, the parlor-table was in, to the hands and all and them and their backs up to the door; but the old man, that was to see, he called for the key, and then— the whole thing seemed to get into his band, and he run from the grave to the top of the house, and he hit every note and every key that ever was put on that old instrument; and, by the Lord, he give it to 'em regular.

He beat it—he hammered it—he thrashed it—he walloped it—he riddle-addle-iddle-addle-iddle-uddle-addle-riddle-diddle-rattle-addle-rattle-iddle-riddle-scratt—he ringed it—he roared it—he roped it—he rattled it—he made it sound like a whole regiment and a brass band and a steam-boat and a thunder-storm and a cyclone and a hive of hornets. He shoved in the bass, he pounded in the treble, he put in the flats and sharps, he crossed the hands, he struck the pedals, he clumped the stops, he pulled the knobs, he pushed the knobs, he turned the knobs, he twisted the knobs, he knocked the knobs, he done everything with that instrument that you could think of to make it talk; and yet it still come back to that one plaintive note, like a sick child crying for its mother.

He hit the bell a wonder; he ached himself with the air; he come down with his knees, his ten fingers, his ten toes, his elbows, and his nose, striking every single solitary note on that planner at one time. The thing bustled, and went off into seventeen hundred and fifty-seven thousand five hundred and forty-two demi-semi-quavers and I don't know what.

When I come to I were under ground about twenty foot, in a place they call Oyster Bay, restin' a man that I never laid eyes on before, and never expect to agin. Day was breaking by the time I got to the Nicholas Hotel, and I leaped my way to bed, I don't know why—there was a man in the next room, and I told him, "Hot music on the baby dell for two!" I pintedly did. — (Dr. Bagby.)

HOLIDAY PRESENTS

J. D. WATTS'
JEWELRY HOUSE,

112 Bridge and 114 1-2 Main Streets,

LYNCHBURG, VA.

Diamonds, Watches & Clocks,
SOLID SILVER AND PLATED WARE.

Bronzes, Necklaces, Rings, Opera Glasses, Spectacles,
and everything in the Jewelry line can be purchased here
for LESS than elsewhere.

GENTS' SOLID GOLD WATCHES

At twenty-five per cent less than they can be bought for in
the city, and all other goods in his line in the same rates.
All kinds of repairing will receive prompt attention.

J. D. WATTS, Lynchburg, Va.

S. O. FISHER,
GUN MAKER

DEALER IN GUNS,
1030 MAIN ST., OP. NORVELL HOUSE,
LYNCHBURG, VA.

Has a large line of Double and Single Breech Loading
Guns, also Muzzle-Loading Single and Double Guns, Mu-
zle and Breech-Loading Rifles.

Hunting Coats, Cartridge Vests, Hats, Leggins,

Cartridge Pouches and Belts, Game Bags, No. 12 Central Fire
Shells from 50 cents per hundred and up. A full line of
all kinds of goods in the hunting line.

"And as Low as they can be Sold in any Market."

My customers can rely on getting anything they want in
the game line.

S. O. FISHER.

J. L. LEE,
General Family Grocer.

Dealer in all kinds of
Family Groceries, Confectionaries, &c., &c.
ALBEMARLE CIDER ALWAYS ON DRAUGHT.

A full assortment of Pickles, Sauces, Horse Radish, Cel-
ery Sauce, &c., &c.

FINE CIGARS AND TOBACCO.
Call at 1200 Main Street if you Want a Bargain.

Description of non-textual images and layout:
- The page is a newspaper advertisement page laid out in three main vertical columns, separated by rules. Large typographic display headings (ornate and bold fonts) are used for business names and section titles (for example "HOLIDAY ADVERTISEMENTS," "The Southern Jewelry House," "CHRISTMAS PRESENTS," "J. D. WATTS' JEWELRY HOUSE," and "S. O. FISHER, GUN MAKER"). 
- Decorative typography is used extensively: varied font sizes, ornamental serifs, all-caps headings, and stylized spacing. Some headlines are curved or spaced for emphasis. 
- There are no photographic images; the only non-textual visual elements are typographic ornamentation and rules/lines used to separate ads, plus some decorative dots and flourishes around certain headings. The page shows signs of age (scattered small spots and smudges) and slight imperfections in print density typical of 19th-century newspaper engraving.