Gardner-Webb University  
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University  
The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957  
John R. Dover Memorial Library  

1884  

Volume 02, Number 12 (December 1884)  
Theodore Presser  

Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude  
Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons  

Recommended Citation  
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 02, No. 12. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, December 1884. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/3  

This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.
MOTTO:—Omne tulit punctum qui miscuit utile dulci. —Horatius.  
He who mingles the useful with the agreeable bears away the prize.  

THE ETUDE  
AN EDUCATIONAL MONTHLY  
FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS OF THE  
Piano Forte.  

VOL. 21 DECEMBER, 1884. NO. 12.

THEODORE PRESSER.  
EDITOR AND PROPRIETOR,  

MUSIC TYPOGRAPHERS.  
WILLIAM H. KEYSER & CO.  
MUSIC PUBLISHERS AND STATIONERS IN ALL  
NO. 921 ARCH STREET,  
PHILADELPHIA.  

BOUD & STOCKHAUSEN, Printers, 923 Filbert St., Phila.  
The ETUDE  
PHILADELPHIA, PA., DEC. 1884  

A Monthly Publication for Teachers and Students of the Piano-Forte  

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year (payable in advance). Single Copies: Twenty cents.  
Questions Concerning This Paper Can Be Addressed to the Editor. Extra Copies Will Be Sent to Any Address for the Regular Price.  

210  

THE ETUDE  

THERE STANDS A CERTAIN POETRY OF EXpression in music, often inherent in the work itself; that is, when composition is brought forth through the material of the means at hand.  

Contributors.  
LIST OF NAMES OF THE CONTRIBUTORS TO THE ETUDE FOR 1884-85.  

E. Von Abene,  
Miss Ethel Allen,  
Thomas A. Beecokt,  
Dr. A. B. Bigny,  
E. M. Bowman,  
D. E. F. Bryant,  
Geo. T. Bullings,  
Willard Burr, Jr.,  
C. B. Gady,  
J. A. Cautroct,  
Fred. C. Hair,  
Geo. T. Howard,  
F. O. Jones,  
Mrs. A. Chambers Ketchum,  
I. K. Frekis,  
Calixa Lavalle,  
Dr. Louis Maus,  
Hamilton Macdougal,  
John W. Mathews,  
W. H. Neave,  
Miss Julia E. Nicholls,  
Albert R. Parsons,  
S. N. Penfield,  
H. B. Roney,  
Madame Emma Seiler,  
W. H. Sherwood,  
Albert A. Stanley,  
J. S. Van Cleve.  

Chats with Pupils.  
THERE is in all arts work and performance that something essential to the acting of it. It is that which a composer strives to infuse, and is, furthermore, the voice of the artist’s own work. A work may be very mature, yet still not spoken; the body may be distracted by complications, or unnecessary elements, and even injurious calls; as when the notes are shown to an audience, when the frenzy of composition has left him, to carefully reflect on his works, noting, the charm of which the rigid codes of writing perform.  

Prize Song.  
The ETUDE will award a prize of gold medal for the best setting to the following words. The text to be used as it stands, or in part, at the discretion of the composer. This rendition is to be written for one voice, with piano accompaniment. The competition is open only to composers now residing in America, and all manuscripts must be sent in before January 1, 1885. The manuscript must bear a fictitious name, and the accompanying sealed letter containing the author’s real name and address.  

International Copyright.  
IMPORTANT NOTICE.  
I’m interested in this subject has been very great. I have made it my aim to help the cause of the one having recently taken the appeal to Congress and has been very hard and strenuous. The aspiration of some of the leading publishers I have already been secured. The preparations of the delicate relation which I now believe is a great deal of time and labor, and in consequence thereof, the committee would ask sincerely its good will.  

For further illustrations, contact A. A. Stanley, 14 Falls Street, Providence, R. I.  

For further information, address this office for further information.
Here is the text extracted from the image:

---

THE ETUDE.

QUICK TO LEARN, SLOW TO TEACH.

Music abounds with half-truths, and the above proposition is one of them. The relation between perceiving and performing is by no means definite. They have only an indirect bearing upon the other, but still enough to make it worthy of our earnest consideration. The possession of a gift can be exercised in two ways, namely, for the enjoyment of self only and for the benefit of others. For the benefit of others, the means of obtaining that gift is of great importance. If our enjoyment, the means by which we can rise to possession of the gift need not be restricted. To our gift, economy, and industry. The one who possesses a talent is usually more encouraged, while the one who has been less appreciated, tending to guide others on the road to riches; but the one, who is told, through various efforts, should not convey the right to seek the more beautiful. 

We cannot forget that moments in music are entirely for you and I. The fickleness of the lovely state of enjoyment flits from page to page. All music is a great art; the artist is not the only one who desired must learn as a pupil under Miss Henson. He will meet many young children deservingly. 

Among the exceptions we thoroughly agree, therefore, amateurs have more success with detailed explanations than an experienced scholar. We can thus entirely arrest the habit of getting the immediate forms. The cleverest teacher can advise highly soon to make haste, to appreciate wisdom and the lessons thereby. 

The main exceptions are those who possess the intellect who we may no longer esteem if pupils have not obtained knowledge from the study below and take pains wherever there is imperfect form progress. 

THE ARTIST-CONCERTS.

The result of our effort to have institutions of learning certainly has turned out most admirable. A large number of institutions with satisfactory results have been established. We will publish for a time the actual material for the next issue—full accounts of the concert areas. 

While time will not ordinarily be a hindrance, schools in the fields of musical departments are not working wise steps significantly. 

In the average mind there remains a good deal of muddle among hopeful spirits, while among the audience is made of young, plastic minds. 

So there are still reasons why they hear and enjoy in the concert, all of which is in a stimulating thought. 

---

This text has been extracted as accurately as possible, capturing the main ideas and themes present in the original image.
WHAT SHALL I BUY?  
MUSICAL HOLIDAY PRESENTS.

There can be nothing more pleasing than a musical present. Almost everything found in a Catalogue of Music would answer the above question. We have selected, however, a number of articles that are particularly suitable for gifts. 

These can be found at any regular music store. If you can not find where to send for one, supply any of the following articles on receipt of the marked price. The list of musical novels and sketches found in another column will be sent on request, as they are in much demand, and some times ornamental covers. We commend our readers to the following list, as containing the most suitable and valuable musical articles that can be found:

1. THINSON'S SONGS, WIT MUSIC—Songs from the Published Writings of Alfred Tennyson, Set to Music by various Composers. Edited by W. E. Cussin. With Portrait and Original Illustrations by Winslow Homer, & R. Renshaw, & A. Freedman, and Jessie C. Roys, cloth, $8.50.

2. PORTRAITS OF THE GREAT COMPOSERS—Life size, $8.00; smaller size, $4.00; Cabinet size, 50 cts., or $4.00 a dozen.

3. THE REAM OF THE REBELS—Three hundred American Musicians. Bound in cloth, by F. A. Hitt, $3.75.

4. FOLKS MUSIC ALL NATIONS—A collection of portraits with biographical notices. Edited by the American Society, $9.00, in any style of binding, extra expense.

5. MUSIC AND MORAL—Havise, $1.75.

6. FOLKS MUSIC OF THE WORLD—Havise, $1.81.

7. A ROMANTIC BIOGRAPHY OF MOZART AND BEETHOVEN—By R. Baird, $1.60.

8. SNEDDEN'S BROWN SONS—From $1.00 to $4.00.

9. THE GREAT COMPOSERS—Trowch, $1.50.

10. LITERARY MUSIC TO A LADY—Bishop, $1.25.

11. ALGER'S—A Musical Novel, $1.00.

12. MUSIC FOR THE PEOPLE—From $1.00 to $4.00.

13. ECHO FROM PAUL'S—From $0.75 to $8.00.

14. A YEAR’S SUBSCRIPTION TO THE ETUDE, $12.15.

15. THE BOUND VOLUME OF THE ETUDE—$2.50 and $3.00 (postage 30 cts.).

16. A MUSICAL BOX—A very desirable present, from $8.00 to $100.

Besides the above, there are many other acceptable holiday presents of a musical character, Beethoven sonatas, Chopin's works, Mozart's works, and Schumann's works which can be had in several volumes. His "Album for the Youth" makes a very neat present for a musical child. Mendelssohn's octet, in a richly bound volume, makes a grand present of any piano player. The binding is in red cloth, and presents a very handsomely adorned cover. There is also a pleasant engraving, entitled "Haydn Crossing the English Channel," very large size—$2.00; the English Picture is a magnificent engraving, and in the impression, on the deck of a ship. The inspiration he received on the occasion of Hayes' "The Creation" and "The Seasons." There are very few of these engravings in the country. The cost is $25.00, but the dealer's price is $10.00, which is exactly the wholesale price. 

We would also mention a number of enjoyable works in which will doubtless be very valuable for the Christmas time. 

EXTRAORDINARY OFFER.  
FOR THIS MONTH ONLY.

We will send THE ETUDE for one year and the following EIGHT VOLUMES for only $2.00. The books will be sent postpaid.  

The eight volumes are worth alone (bound in cloth) from $10.00 to $12.00. They are suitable for holiday presents. This offer can be used by pupils and members to promote themselves from pupils. THE ETUDE is read by pupils and many names of teaching the corner only throughout the year. This valuable premium we hope and may win your public to your readers. 

MY MUSICAL MEMOIRS—For complete Yearly use September issue, 1884, of E. H. H. Rads.

SUCCESSFUL MEN OF TO-DAY—By R. F. Giffs. 

"This is an excellent book of the kind, or contains much valuable. It is very pleasing reading, for its contributors generally relate interesting facts, or interesting actions of great men of all walks of life.” —The Critic, New York.

THE AMERICAN HUMORIST—By H. R. Williams, 12mo, 12th. 

“This book is pleasant reading, with sparkling thoughts, as the sort from the Financials.” 

With the poets—By Canon Farrer, 12mo, 200 pp. 

“Pay regular tribute to some favorite poets, etc.” —Worcester, Connecticut 

CHARLOTE BRONTE—By Laura C. Holloway, 12mo. 114 pp. 

“Manage with the rare skill we might expect & the character of the ethical cares of one with a very affectionate nature, and the stead of feeling studiously placed before you, we seem to wish for the one of a brief unfeeling microscope the rise to grander—New York Herald. 

THE HIGHWAYS OF LITERATURE—By Edward Reitz, 12mo. 

“It hints, notes, and directions for reading are just what we need for our production.” 

OUR CHRISTMAS IN A PARADISE—By Edward E. Wells. 

“Everyone knows that Miss Hale is the queen of charms and knows sights to be charming—you also know that Miss Hale writes a good book.” 

Each book is well bound in a neat paper cover, with brown and golden lettering on old blue and red paper.
THE ETUDE

CORRESPONDENCE

Editor of The Etude:

Dear Sir, — I was glad to see Mrs. Hunter's essay on "Harmony and the Piano" reproduced in The Etude, for while it has many good points, I know it possesses some weaknesses. By the way, that is one of my strong dislikes of our journal; we really number, bound, will make a musical scrapbook.

I have only recently been in contact with music, and have been clipping the educational articles from all our leading musical periodicals. The Etude contains a lot more than valuable essays, and I find it enlightening. I have been as much to my piano book as to the most useful books in my musical history. But I have wandered from my subject, and I wanted to say that my experience has put me at odds with Mrs. Hunter; that I have previously reported on the formation of the hand. While I show my pupils the proper position, they do not say, "I can hold things this way." In my last, I have been at a great deal of time to give each a fine regard for their ideas.

I cannot see the advantage of those small, technical movements, and it was practically impossible to give the concern to smaller fingers until a teacher taught me. I can see great results, but for the time the entire hand must work in harmony. When we study the subjects of making the first joint stand perpendicular, while the tendency from the thumb will be to knuckle makes the thumb small.

This bending of the thumb is rarely mentioned. We see the plates of the hand shown in the grammar, in the mirror where others should not put their hands secured, great care must be exercised, and many times in the band, as to escape the ventral motion.

Julia A. Nicholls

Des Moines, Iowa.

HOW TO PRACTICE.

By MISS AMY FAY.

(Continued from last issue.)

A pianist has lately been discussed in Berlin helping the artists to play the piano. I say this, because it is regarded as one of the finest in the field, but what I wished to relate would only serve as a private remark. Mendelssohn explained that musicians must always observe propriety in order to express beauty.

What is really conditioned is that no micrologist’s opinion can sway your opinion. The novel kind of arrangement that I was originally recommended for study is not prepared to keep your hands entirely over the keyboard. Yet it recommends physical actions so they will not guide students. But I wish to emphasize that players should be more accurate in thought than method.

Lessing wrote that if you practice daily and had a solid foundation, the intensity should find itself to early works, giving another result. I would like to close my remarks, but I’m afraid the game rests on their troubles. I would rather not vent my dislike of the kind of advice given. But any real danger lies in taking the importance of serene beauty.

You can still play for hours when you have become beautiful. You will reach your destination by perseverance, as talent alone is not a guiding factor.

It seems that every early touch leads me to purposely understand how to improve my hands with Paula!

Yours respectfully,

JULIA A. NICHOLS.
The text from the image reads as follows:

---

214  
THE ETUDE

and shapes. If he ever practiced he always used a metronome. Mr. Harris, who for twelve months acted as his secretary, later said to me, never saw him take his violin from its case. He liked to say he had worked enough, and had to overcome the superhuman difficulties he might have created, with the same unerring facility, and ever marveled by the expert and serious eyes of critics and rivals. In vain were the explanations, no notes of tone, no phrases were ever rendered. His hands were a geometrical comparison, which revealed the finger-board with mathematical precision. 

“ When I heard Paganini,” continued Heine, “I was thrilled by the music for which he had been transforming. From him I obtained to discover that passion transcends virtuous perfection of technique, which enables me to create the modern passion before each, and with it—Edward B. Dewood what Paganini won for Guarnerius, as Stradivari had done before him, I was now suddenly required to be the one conduct. ” 

Paganini's enthusiasm would seem to have been a perfect method, to work out the new techniques; he had rendered it plain to me. The spirit which makes men adherent to art strives ever to discover the highest importance to a new generation. The principles of art history have only supplanted the saloon musician. Formulating into a people who have never enough spirit able for brawn and the fingers. How beautifully to make the class of merit: and I would fain we moved faster.

The farce that is quite natural to the school boy, the father is almost the only one who hears the merits of training. And, like many others, that hand must be entirely reconstructed. Some hands are not pliable, others are. Many have crumpled and frayed bones; the delicate fingers are thick of all hands, those that don't strange advice also would like to blossom under the piano. It is most important to the respect of the playing conditions, and the mannerisms.

But be true to the school-boy fingers: this, moreover, is the right in several cases. 

You did not intend to apply to “Hand Push”! Have you discovered this for me? Yes! Wyeth, a friend of mine, has also suggested who is here. I shall not contradict you. 

Further, I may mention the following: Having service my hand from the piano, by playing with a finger, sits as still as your fingers, to entirely go off the instrument. 

W. H. Sterndale's celebrated address on “Legato,” delivered before the Teacher's Association held at York.

F. S. Meyer.

---

ON THE IMPORTANCE OF "TRANSPOSING"

BY E. VON ADELBURG.

“ TRANSPOSING ” is viewed by most teachers and the greater part of the public as something that is unnecessarily difficult. This is largely due to a misconception of its nature, and the failure to understand its true meaning, and its important effect on princes and every intelligent teacher. 

In playing, when practicing transposing, it has been found necessary to remove the fingers without difficulty. Conditions may arise from transposing the keys from major tonic and the relative minor in relation to various parts of pieces as well. 

In looking for a good fingered bass, think of a tuba and do not think of a single string! 

---

The text continues, discussing various techniques and tips related to music education, the importance of skill development, and practices in music learning.
PROGRESSIVE AND MELODIOUS STUDIES  
RECREATIONS  
BOOK 4  

Selected and Arranged by  
HUNTING SONG  
LOUIS MEYER  

51.  

Copyright, 1879, by F. A. NORTH & CO.  

The page features musical notation with various notes and symbols indicating rhythm and dynamics. The upper part includes a title and the name of the arranger. The notation is organized in a staff format typical for sheet music, showcasing different measures and various expressive markings, such as "mf" (mezzo-forte) and "cres." (crescendo).
The image contains a musical score titled "MARCH." It features several staves of sheet music with notes, staff lines, and various musical symbols. The score indicates the key signature, measures, and dynamics. The text includes note labels and musical terms, but there are no lyrics present.

The bottom right corner shows the publisher's name: "F. A. N. & CO." along with a number "3356." The page appears to be designed for piano performance, given the arrangement of notes for both the treble and bass clefs.
30

REVERIE.

Andantino.

dolente,

dim. e poco riten.

F. A. N. & CO. 3358.
Andante religioso.

HYMN.

33

dolce.

F.A.N. & CO. 3368.
(STUDENT'S EDITION)

FORTY-EIGHT  
PROGRESSIVE PIANO STUDIES.  
(Foreign Fingering.)  
A. LOESCHHORN, Op. 85.

Book 2.  
Allegretto.  

17.  
mf  

(There are musical notes and instructions throughout the page, including dynamics like "mf" and "p," with various fingerings indicated above the notes.)
The image contains a sheet of music with the following text:

- The title "Pianoforte" with a tempo marking of "♩ = 103."
- The word "legato" appears above the staff.
- An instruction at the beginning of the music indicates to play "mf," which means "mezzo forte."
- There are numerical markings (1, 2, 3) above certain notes, likely indicating fingerings for piano playing.

At the bottom of the page, there is a publication note stating: "Ballard's 30 Progressive Piano Studies. Bk. 1. Student's Edition. Foreign Fingerings." 

The page features a series of musical notations, including staves, clefs, notes, rests, and dynamics.
The image is a page of sheet music, featuring several measures of musical notation. It includes staves with standard musical symbols, indicating notes and rhythm. The top left corner contains a clef symbol, typically a treble clef, and various notes, dynamics (like "p" for piano and "f" for forte), and articulation marks throughout the measures. 

At the bottom of the page, there is a title indicating "Heller's 20 Progressive Piano Studies, Part 1, Student's Edition" followed by "Published Florence." The page number is also noted in the top right corner as "13." The notation features a mix of quarter notes, eighth notes, and possibly other note values.

Overall, the music appears to be composed for piano practice, with structured melodies and dynamic variations designed to assist students in their learning.
(STUDENT'S EDITION.)
THIRTY PROGRESSIVE PIANO STUDIES.
(Book 1)
(Allegro assai, = 126.)
S. HELLER, Op. 46.
THE ETUDE  
223  

HELPS IN SCALE-PRACTICE.  
(For The Etude.)

It stands of the piano-forte we are striving to become virtuosos, and answers that we are trying to go beyond merely acquiring only the mechanical features of scale-execution every mind, with the proper melodic function and to correct individual defects, and to acquiring generally a respectful method, and the execution of scales may be in most important exercises, and every spare time on Etudes, at least such as are purely technical.

Play, as I've mentioned there, "memories," can be strongly dependent on different conditions, although they can be attended to and executed separately according to their degree, as for right hand alone.

[Musical Notation Example]

and by some pertain in necessarily playing (as at least doing as fully well under our progress, should lead to make it) real perfection should depend on the foundation.

The next is the third "exercise," considering it not only to the scale during the similar development, depends on the art of expression as a style. In the general practice part in which merely exercises.

Make this movement by holding the fourth finger as high as possible by itself, and bringing down firmly, not dropping on the body, the same thing occurs with similar shifting the middle joint, and without distracting the direct position of hand and wrist. 

The position of the finger in question should be preceded and followed by a slight raising the palm preceding to draw the fourth finger into single control of the movement, and the pause following to affect the clinging of the finger and prepare the finger for action. 

The other low keys are selected among many others in order to give the fourth finger a variety of relative positions to the neighboring fingers, according to where a black key.

Other crucial exercises for the same purpose may be formed by giving special reasons to this finger in the scales, e.g. all five fingers and in difficulty to hold the fourth finger down long whenever the hand has to pass under.

[Musical Notation Example]

The practice of scale in a gradually from "up," to "down" as well as "corrected" and "diminished," constitutes as certain rhythm in scales, to groups 3, 4, 6, each, with a flexible and flexible method of execution, requires good steadiness in all equals at every convenience.

As a general advice, for the way to occupy the mind during representation.

The "elements" of tones depend on the equal development, whether it would correct fingers, the speed in the hand can tighten or loosen, while its qualities rise and improve.

Whatever it takes a long or short time to learn a piece of little movements - one should not be in a hurry either until it is learned. Some people might be tempted to practice without deliberate knowledge, while every chord and transition, and then it brings in a very proper tack, and exercise only as this movement should, and might accomplish.

While mistakes may occur, no other harm comes from hindering too skillfully upon the instrument then other instruments that one may respond and provide sort of those means in one.

Thus, having learned the simple composition of the learning the piano, refers to pupils of the Oxford (Ohio) and among others, one step that must be excluded for developing the modern art of playing in a position.

FRED C. CHASE
THE ETUDE

Learning music as a simple accomplishment—that is, for dancing in the parlor, to accompany the voice at home in simple song, and to play ordinary songs, is quite a different matter from studying it with reference to making teaching or playing a profession. Hermann says, "the teacher's attention and faithful practice can delay, in the degree of excellence," those students who have not done the essential work. I know students who, after one whole year of lessons from any competent teacher, is a disappointing. It is also clear that there are hundreds of pupils teaching not only private classes but holding positions for influencing schools, who actually do not know the proper conjunction of history and music theory, and the mere notion of a symphony from the orchestration.

Playing a piece simply through and through but not being able to interpret it is the simplest thing. When you attempt to learn, ask yourself the following questions: What is it saying? Why was it written? If it has a title, can I scale it as I am? Play that scale to refresh your memory about the piece. When the time comes to practice it, pay attention to the meaning in it; this will guide your work and add insight.

TESTIMONIALS

We have not printed any of the encouraging testimonials to the profession for some months, but this note from Mrs. Susan C. Britton, one of our oldest subscribers, shows how she appreciates the previous issues, and these testimonials continue to be frequent. We have been privileged by presenting a few specimens received by various schools of music. 

BEAUTIFUL THOUGHTS ON MUSIC

SELECTED FOR THE ETUDE FROM EBNEKT.

"Mozart—done in a manner that is sincere and pure. No one can quote in better terms the necessary feelings of the soul, music, vibrancy of emotions. It must be said that talent is a gift for which most musicians can stand alone or filled with praise."

HOW TO WIN AND RETAIN A PUPIL

By Dr. Gustave Schilling

There is a great necessity in indicating the role of the teacher in relationship with the interest and individuality of the pupil; the teacher's personality is indeed a primary factor in this relationship.

Your most respectfully,
Mary Smith. 

Theodore Presser, Philadelphia, Pa.
The text in the image contains the following content:

---

THE ETUDE

The conductor in such a case as a public performance can do little if the singer has not been trained to do, and the interpretation of the music is apt to be a miscalculation and spiritless performance.

Such performances may give a society a good reputation, and some profit and pleasure, but not very much else, and it is quite unlike the American way of doing things. 

How can music be taught, then? Let us endeavor to consider the most direct methods, and how to become a society of artist-trained performers, and how to help the good work not only carry on, but also eliminate the false and unworthy among us.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

Questions pertaining to the study of the Piano-forte will receive more attention, and the answers will be given in the "Teacher's Column."

...

QUEST. — Can you give me a few hints about chorus composing? 

ANS. — Good chorus singing, in general terms, is where a number of voices, several on each part, sing a given combination of tones and rhythm, where their qualities blend and restrict one another, producing a cohesive whole. 

If the voices are well tuned, if the singers know how to blend, if they are harmonious and artistically expressive, the labors of the choir master will be greatly embraced.

Furthermore, if the choir has the requisite resources, they are able to do wonders. 

QUEST. — Will you give me the metronome marks for Kullak's Octave Studies?

ANS. — No. 1 — d = 60. 
No. 2 — d = 72. 
No. 4 — d = 90. 
No. 5 — d = 120. 
No. 6 — d = 160. 

...

ISSUE, Page 225
---

The document appears to be an educational article focused on music instruction, chorus composition, and teaching methodologies. It emphasizes the role of performance quality and the importance of training for effective music interpretation.
The image contains a page from "The Etude" magazine, specifically the "Teachers' Department" section. The text discusses musical education, teaching methods, and the importance of engaging music lessons. It references notable composers like Beethoven, and emphasizes the role of enthusiasm in teaching.

There are also examination questions about harmony, including topics such as doubling chords, musical rules, and exceptions in progressions. Additionally, the page features humorous commentary, including a dialogue about playing the piano and perceptions of music teaching.

Overall, the document blends educational content with personal insights and a touch of humor.