Gardner-Webb University
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University

The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957                               John R. Dover Memorial Library

4-1-1885

Volume 03, Number 04 (April 1885)

Theodore Presser


Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude

[icon] Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Fine Arts Commons, History Commons, Liturgy and Worship Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons


Recommended Citation
Presser, Theodore (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 03, No. 04. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, April 1885. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/282


This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.


Description of non-textual image(s):
- Small colorful circular logo shown to the left of the phrase "Part of the ..." The icon is a ring-like, swirl design composed of multiple curved segments in bright colors (blue, green, yellow, red, and possibly orange). The segments form a broken circle with a small central white space; the overall effect is a multicolored pinwheel or spiral emblem commonly used for repository or commons branding.
- There are also two thin horizontal rules (lines) used as separators: one beneath the header containing "The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957   John R. Dover Memorial Library" and another above the "Recommended Citation" section. The page layout is otherwise predominantly white space with centered and left-aligned text blocks.
MOTTO. — Omne tulit punctum qui miscuit utile dulci. — Horatius.
He who mingles the useful with the agreeable bears away the prize.

THE ETUDE

AN EDUCATIONAL MONTHLY
FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS OF THE

Piano Forte.

Vol. III.]                             APRIL, 1885.                             [No. 4.

THEODORE PRESSER.
EDITOR AND PROPRIETOR,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

BOUD & STOCKHAUSEN, Printers, 823 Filbert Street, Phila.

Description of non-textual images and ornamentation:
- The page is framed by an ornate decorative border. At the top margin is a horizontal frieze featuring a small rural skyline of houses and trees set above a patterned band of dots and floral motifs.
- Two tall classical columns run down the left and right margins from near the top to the bottom corners. Each column is heavily ornamented in a neoclassical style with stacked panels showing small vignette figures and vertical fluting; the capitals are elaborately decorated and topped with a shallow pedestal supporting foliage-like finials.
- Decorative horizontal rule elements with stylized floral scrollwork flank the words "Piano Forte." There is also a small ornamental divider (a symmetric floral/scroll device) set beneath the date line separating the Masthead from the editor information.
- The lower corners contain large square ornamental blocks incorporating intricate foliate patterns and circular medallion-like motifs; a long, richly patterned horizontal band with repeating floral and geometric motifs connects these corner blocks across the bottom margin.
- The typographic treatment is decorative and varied: the title "THE ETUDE" is set in very large, bold, engraved-style lettering; "Piano Forte." is in a stylized serif display font with ornamental extensions; other headings use small caps and engraved-style serif fonts consistent with 19th-century periodicals. The overall look is Victorian, highly embellished, and symmetrical.
74

THE ETUDE.

ARTISTS' CONCERTS
IN
COLLEGES, LADIES' SEMINARIES, MUSIC SCHOOLS, ETC.,
GIVEN BY
WILLIAM H. SHERWOOD AND DR. LOUIS MAAS,
The Concerts are of an Educational character, and will, if desirable, be given with a
Lecture on the Music performed. The price of the Concerts are placed within the reach of
all Institutions of Learning, for further particulars address the Manager,
THEODORE PRESSER,
1004 Walnut Street, Phila., Pa.

BOX 252.

[Left column: engraved illustration of an ornate reed organ on a tall cylindrical pedestal. Two winged putti or cherubs are depicted beside the organ. On the cylinder beneath the organ the words appear vertically as part of the ornamentation:]

DETROIT.
THE
ONLY REED ORGAN
MADE
HAVING THE PATENT
QUALIFYING TUBE
GIVING THE
NEAREST APPROACH
TO THE TONE OF
PIPE
ORGANS

AGENTS WANTED.
Lowest Prices, and Exclusive Territory Given.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue. Mailed free.

CLOUGH & WARREN ORGAN CO.,
Factory, DETROIT, MICH.
New York Warehouse:
44 EAST 14TH STREET.
(Union Square.)

STUDIES FOR PIANO,
--BY--
A. D. TURNER.

"Six Preludes," Op. 15. Price, $1.00.

"These Preludes are not only good from a purely musical
standpoint, but they are a valuable means of familiarizing the
student with a proper method of performing with the requisite
smoothness, legato progression of chords, variety both in their
harmonic construction and position on the keyboard. The proper
use of the damper pedal is also practically exemplified in an
admirably graduated manner."
FREDERIC ARCHER, in Music and Drama, N. Y., March 3, 1885.

"Eleven Short Studies in Full Chord Skips," Op. 23.
Price, $1.00.
(Supplement to "Six Preludes.")

"Two Preludes and Fugues in Octaves," Op. 22.
Price, $1.00.
(Dedicated to J. E. Payne.)

"Etude in 4-4 Rhythm," Op. 16. Price, $1.00.
(See Review in Key-Note, March 8th.)

Send to any Boston Music Store, or to
THEODORE PRESSER,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

OUTLINE OF TECHNIQUE,
--BY--
G. H. HOWARD.

This Outline gives rules and principles for the develop-
ment of Technique. It has been commended as one
of the best works by many eminent pianists and teachers.
This commendation has been given on account of its clear
presentation of the sources of skill, as well as its careful
classification of positions, motions, and forces.

Will be Mailed on Receipt of Price, 50 cts.
Address
THEODORE PRESSER,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
Box 252.

THE PETERSILEA
MUTE PIANO,
SEVEN AND ONE-THIRD OCTAVES,
FOR THOROUGH PIANO-FORTE PRACTICE.
One hour equal to four on the ordinary piano.
No annoyance to neighbors.
PRICE, $45.00.
SPECIAL RATES TO THE TRADE.
For particulars address
THE PETERSILEA ACADEMY
of Music, Elocution, and Languages,
279 and 281 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass.

TEACHER'S TABLETS.

The following schedule for practice will commend itself to every conscientious teacher and
student. The idea is not new, but its adoption is only now becoming general. We have avoided
complication in the formula. The two inches blank space under "remarks" will answer for any
particular direction, etc., a teacher might wish. We have found in our own teaching formulas of
this kind of incalculable benefit to pupils. We have used for years only blank pieces of paper in-
dicating with the more unmethodical pupils the exact number of times we expected each thing to
be practiced. A course of this kind soon produces system in a pupil's practice, and puts a speedy
end to the aimless and careless study. It will take a short trial to convince teachers that a plan of
this kind will get more and better work out of pupils.

[Small boxed notice:]
In this space will be printed the name and
address of the teacher,
or anything desirable.

METHOD
OF
Daily Practice.

Technics, ________________
Scales, __________________
Studies, _________________
Pieces, __________________
Review, _________________

REMARKS.

The price for the above, put up in tablets of 100
each, with card printed in square space, will be as
follows, postage free:
100 tablets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 cts.
500 " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.50
1000 " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.25
5000 " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.00
Without any imprint, 30 cts. per hundred.

Address
"THE ETUDE,"
BOX 252,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
THE ETUDE.

CONDUCTED BY THEODORE PRESSER.

VOL. III. PHILADELPHIA, PA., APRIL, 1885. NO. 4.

THE ETUDE.

PHILADELPHIA, PA., APRIL, 1885.

A Monthly Publication for Teachers and Students of the Piano-forte.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES, $1.25 PER YEAR (payable in advance).
Single Copy, twenty-five cents.
Specimen Copy sent to any address for ten cents.
Office, 904 Walnut Street.
In order to facilitate the delivery of mail, all letters should be directed to

THEODORE PRESSER,
Lock Box 252. PHILADELPHIA, PA.

(Entered at Philadelphia Post-Office as Second-class matter.)

By a Blue or Red Pencil Mark drawn across this paragraph subscribers will understand that their subscription to this publication expires with this issue, and, unless it is promptly renewed, will be discontinued.

THE PRIZE PIANO METHOD.

We are in constant receipt of letters about the character, limit, etc., of the primary instruction opened for prize competition, which announcement appears in another part of this journal. The following letter is a fair sample of the kind we have received:

To the Editor of The Etude:

Respecting your $100 offer for a primary text-book for the piano, allow me to make a few remarks.

Could not the time for sending in MS. be extended, say one or two weeks? My reason for this suggestion is that most teachers are very busy teaching till the hot season commences, and have hardly time to do justice to a careful preparation and examination of such work as is required.

Some years ago a violent extract of finger exercises for the primary pupils, published in a widely-circulated foreign method, was reprinted here, with finger-numbers so erroneously attached to the notes that, had the publishers been allowed to remain unnoticed, teachers would be apt to attribute the errors to the authors of the pieces. We ask the committee to insist that the authorship of melodies be distinctly and correctly given in all contributions sent. MS. will not be returned unless stamps are enclosed.

We will state that the committee of judges, who will be selected from the foremost teachers in the land, is to be the only authority to decide these matters. There is little doubt but what selected material will be accepted; if a compilation were placed against an original work of equal merit, the judges would no doubt decide in favor of the latter. If the writer will examine more closely the announcement he will notice that no time is set for the closing of the competition, but only for receiving names of those who expect to try for the prize.

The time for closing will be voted for by all competitors in July, and the average time taken. There are as many ways of writing an instruction for the piano as there are ways of writing a composition. Milton once received the prize, over all competitors, for a composition on the subject of converting the wine into water at the marriage feast, by one masterly sentence: "The conscious water saw its God and blushed."

In our case, however, there is a certain ground to be covered, but a bulky volume is not necessarily meritorious. There will be no restriction whatever on any who wish to compete. The judges only must decide which one is best adapted for the American youth. A number of teachers have registered, and have gone to work vigorously on the work. The stimulus given by the prize will have the effect of forming a definite system and plan in teaching on all those who set to work to write a book.

PUBLISHER'S NOTICES.

We call the attention of our readers to the effort now being made to raise funds to erect a monument to the honor of C. M. von Weber at his native place, Eutin. The committee having charge of the matter have appointed Dr. F. Ziegfeld, corner of State and Randolph Streets, Chicago, as chairman of the sub-committee for the United States. All contributions sent to this office will be promptly forwarded to Dr. Ziegfeld, and the names and amounts of the donors published the following month in THE ETUDE.

The Course in Harmony did not appear in the March issue on account of plates not being ready. We have now the assurance that no further interruptions will occur. The new pamphlet which contains the May instalment is now ready. It is put up in flexible cover. The price has been changed from ten to twenty-five cents each, or $2.00 per dozen.

"The Musician." — This work by Ridley Prentice we believe to be of great value to teachers. It is the best American work on piano technique and pedagogy that has yet appeared in this country. It is so satisfactory in the plan of treatment of its subjects that we feel sure it will be largely read and recommended. The book will be ready in a few weeks and will be announced in our next issue.

In this undertaking we ask the kindly support of our readers. It is unmistakably a work which every teacher should possess. The chapter we publish in this issue from the Third Grade will give an idea of the character of the work. We have been furnishing the original English edition for eighty-five cents, but will be prepared to supply our edition at seventy-five cents for each grade, post paid. Orders will now be received for the first grade.

It is well to state that only three of the six grades have been published in England. We will issue an American edition of the whole six as soon as completed. Do not let this opportunity pass unimproved.

We have received from F. B. Rice, Director, the catalogue of the Conservatory of Music of the Oberlin (Ohio) College. The total number of pupils enrolled during the last year was 473, which speaks prosperity in this staunch school of music. The high character of our American schools of music is fast breaking up the custom of going abroad to study. In a short time there will be little gained by going abroad either in name or reality.

Much of this issue is taken up by controversy. This discussion among writers has its value, if it is conducted in a spirit of fairness and liberality. We have observed that want of temper and personal animosity sometimes obtrude themselves into written discussions. We would urge upon our correspondents, who desire to use The Etude to expose a wrong or vindicate a right, to avoid all personal attacks, and to confine themselves to argument and the defence of their positions. The Etude is not the vehicle for personalities. We shall decline to print letters that are couched in a spirit below the dignity of the subject, or that contain personal invective. The highest courtesy will always be considered in selecting matter for publication, and we will adhere to this rule whenever it ceases to benefit our readers.

We are authorized to announce a summer music school by Dr. H. R. Palmer (Theory and Chorus), W. H. Sherwood (Piano), Harry Wheeler (Voice). The organ department remains yet unfilled. The place of holding the school has not yet been determined. If in the National Conservatory, New York city, a large number of teachers will be drawn there. It would be well to begin the school immediately after the meeting, and to make it an annual feature. Full particulars will appear in our next issue. This looks like being a very valuable institution, and we heartily recommend all teachers to send in applications for representing the heads of the normal schools.

(There is a large ornamental masthead at the top of the page with the title "THE ETUDE." in heavy stylized lettering and the line "CONDUCTED BY THEODORE PRESSER." beneath it.)
76

THE ETUDE.

CHATS WITH PUPILS.
VII.

THE MODEL STUDENT.

Modern education is burdened with a multiplicity of studies. The youthful mind is never allowed to dwell long on one study. Six, eight, and ten studies to prepare daily the year round is not uncommon in educational systems. In fact, the whole of school life is spent in overcoming the rudimentary difficulties of many different studies, any one of which to master thoroughly would make a life's work. The object of all this experimental study is to give time for choice of study, namely, to form the judgment sufficient to make a choice. We plunge into every department of study, tasting of each, only to find out whether our nature responds to the peculiar study. Another very good object in not being hasty in choosing life's study is, that many to be successful in life should never engage in any mental avocation where nature intended and fitted them for a purely mechanical or mercantile pursuit. Parents also make a great mistake in bringing up a child to follow some particular line of study which is revolting to the child's nature. We have two notable instances of this in the lives of Handel and Schumann. We know of a father who was determined that his boy should be an Episcopal minister, and to this end he kept him in high schools and universities for nine years, at a great sacrifice to his and his family's comfort. The young man in this case did not rebel, but faithfully tried to fulfil the wishes of his fond parent, but it was of no use. Nature never intended him for any intellectual pursuit, least of all an Episcopal minister. From the university he entered a printing office at $3.50 per week, which, after a year's time, was increased to $4.00. His university education? was an almost total loss to him. He was not only kept back all these years from engaging in a pursuit fitted to his capacity, but he lost almost every chance of making a success of anything in life.

But what has all this to do with the Model Student? We only wished to make clear that a judicious choice of study must be made,—not he who wills can become a musician, but he who is called.

One trouble with musical study, which prevents the same mode choosing as with the other professions, is that to be successful in it one must cultivate it from earliest youth. The Germans have a saying that "one must have his technic behind at nineteen." The choice of most callings in life need not be made until about the time a musician is a matured artist. Nature, as if aware of this fact, has wisely provided that the musical talent should show itself very early in a child's life, and thus do away with any preliminary education in order to reach a choice of study; but in spite of this, there are a vast amount of failures in music from late beginnings. We are positively convinced that technical education is an art and after maturity has once set in. Technic after that seems fixed and rigid like the body itself. A child in growing up changes his form, his physiognomy, his gait, his movements; in fact, during childhood and maturity everything about him is constantly changing; but there comes a time when the whole frame and its various movements remain fixed. The child thenceforward grows in added bulk; but the form is moulded and stereotyped. With this clinching of all physical form and habits ceases the further training of the muscles by the action of the mind. We must yet see the first artist who has not laid the foundation of his skill in early youth, indeed, we have never seen even a passable good player who began after the age of nineteen years. We will presume then, in describing our ideal student, that a judicious choice has been made, and further, that he has youth, with his mind plastic and muscles and body unformed.

In the model student there are two things to be considered. His nature and his work. The qualities of mind which make a person susceptible to the charms of music, or even to create tone pictures are by no means the same as those which will make him an artist. It is very doubtful whether Wagner, Berlioz, and Cherubini would even have made great artists. Not because of their overpowering creative spirit, but a positive lack of those qualities which one must possess to become an artist. The keynote of this is found in the life of Wagner, who began piano playing under an able and conscientious teacher, who gave him finger exercises to practice, and no doubt good advice about position of hand, etc. Before the second lesson came round the teacher thought he would call in and see how he was getting along in his practice, he found young Wagner hammering away on the overture to Der Freischutz.

We will first consider the nature of the model student,—the aesthetical,—leaving the work,—the Technic,—for another "chat."

The first requisite is a warm, loving, poetical nature; a heart full of sympathy and passion. A nature whose emotional oscillations move through the whole realm of human feeling. Almost any nature when deeply moved by calamity or other outward circumstances will show forth intense feeling. Others have to be goaded to produce feeling, but the Aeolian harp-like nature of the musician is moved by the tenderest touch. This artistic soul is the prime requisite to a musical student. Persons may possess every emotion, every susceptibility necessary for an artist, and yet not be able to apply them to art. Not so with an artist who possesses these qualities in the abstract and carries them also into his daily life. Only the crude material for art's cultivation is found in our natures. Art is the idealization of our emotions. To appropriate what our sentiment being possesses to artistic cultivation is the work of every true teacher and student of music. There are many cultivated and refined people who are totally unsuspicious of art-creations, or only are capable of the rudest forms. This is because their spiritual nature has never passed through the crucible of art discipline. This directing the life of the soul toward the appreciation and conception of beauty as found in art is the greatest aim of the ideal music student. Imagination is a quality a musician must especially cultivate. The meaning of tone pictures (with the exception of a very few instances, like the Revolutionary Etude of Chopin, the Pastoral Symphony of Beethoven, etc.) is left to the imagination to supply.

The vagueness and indefiniteness of the musical language when not associated with words call for a constant exercise of the imagination. It gives to an intentionary character, it gives to mere outlines sensuous beauty a spiritual beauty. It is the only means by which you can search out and comprehend the beauties of song art at its production; which springs from the imagination, appeals to the imagination, and is understood only by the imagination.

Strange as it may seem, the next quality for a successful student of music is a practical sense. The modern musician's demands the intellectual grasp, and not only to interpret, but to understand it. Bach, Beethoven, Wagner, Brahms, etc., were thinkers; take brains to play. Strength of mind is the tone art needs. A thorough musician must be a thinker, as well as a dreamer. A very high degree of the philosophic disposition is necessary for the director in music. Some may talk largely of the inspiration, but, say, it is insufficient; the artist must work hard. There is more work in music than in any branch of art, there is more reading, more study, more thought; many a young student is dashed to pieces when confronting the gigantic art-works of the master minds of music.

There is a call in music for all the minor graces of the mind. To amplify would lead us too far, so we will content ourselves by merely pointing out some of the more prominent ones. Memory is severely taxed, and now forms a distinct study in music. It has been conceded that of all professions the artist has the greatest strain laid on his memory. Nothing less than a miracle is expected from a public performer. The physical powers are called upon to endure a very exhaustive and fatiguing exercise in interpreting many modern works.

There is perhaps no study that combines with the special work on hand so many collateral qualities as music study. Concentration, perseverance, patience, energy, enthusiasm, are all needed from the word "go" in music. The enormity of work is appalling for the ideal student. Were it not for the precious results for this long and fatiguing study we would discourage every person from ever entering the arena of art, and will say, in conclusion, that he who has not the power and gifts to attain the end has no right in the higher walks of art.

MUSIC TEACHERS' NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.

PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Editor of The Etude:

WHILE it is impossible at this early date to announce with definiteness the details of the programme arranged for the coming meeting of the Music Teachers' National Association, the plans are sufficiently matured to warrant the statement that the session will be a very brilliant one. Essays are promised by Wm. Mason, J. H. Cornell, H. E. Krehbiel (of the N. Y. Tribune), Geo. F. Bristow, L. C. L? (?), and Hon. John Eaton, of Washington, United States Commissioner of Education; while other prominent men in the different branches of musical work are expected to present timely papers. Mr. S. P. Warren, the distinguished organist of Grace Church, will preside at the organ recitals, while Mrs. Jennie Bloomer and Messrs. Carl Faelten, S. B. Mills, Emil Liebling, and Carlyle Petersilea are to be heard in piano recitals. The American Composition Concert, which was a feature of last year's meeting, it is expected will be unusually fine, and a large orchestra and efficient chorus will participate. The reports of the committees upon important subjects, notably the International Copyright Petition, will be interesting, and the fact that the Association has taken a firm stand on several points, must certainly add to its reputation for fearlessness and honesty of purpose, even from opponents of the principles involved. A delightful sail up the Hudson will be one of the features of the meeting, and as the committee representing the Music Teachers' National Association are hard at work, arranging for reduced railroad rates (in regard to which we hope to give definite information soon) a profitable, and in every way notable meeting can be promised. All parties desiring information are earnestly requested to correspond with the Secretary, Mr. A. A. Stanley, 14 Pallis Street, Providence, R. I.

THE OLD SCHOOL OF PIANO
PLAYING.

Editor of The Etude:

I was much interested in an article on this subject which appeared in your last number. But before going further, let me congratulate you upon the excellence of your paper, THE ETUDE.

It fills a place very completely where before was a crying void. Every pianist and teacher of pianoforte must feel a personal interest in it. The ideas expressed by the writer of the "Old School of Piano Playing" are the

(Printed page ends or is trimmed at bottom; remainder of this article not visible on the scan.)

Non-textual imagery description:
- The page is a black-and-white scan of a printed magazine page (The Etude), with a decorative masthead "THE ETUDE." at top center and the page number "76" at top left. There are no photographs or illustrations on the page—only typographic elements (column rules, headings, and small decorative ornamentation in the masthead). The scan shows some age-related darkening and edge wear along the borders.
THE ETUDE. 77

same that my father entertained, from whom I inherited my love of the classic, and by whom I first learned to love the productions of the old masters. I coincide with the writer that much of the music of modern composers is nothing more than sundry frantic and spasmodic attempts to produce sensational effects at the expense of everything that is pure and lovable in music. But we must remember that the literature has had its golden age, its iron age, and even its dark age. May not music also have its golden age, and its iron age, and in time brighten the despondency of its devotees by a return of its golden age? It cannot, however, have such a return if we be content to sit with folded hands, gazing pensively into the past, and bewailing the present.

A sad day that will be for the cause of music when its composers and executants shall cry, "There is no more to be done! the day is past, never to return, when musicians were inspired. We must live merely in the worship of the past." We must cast aside that superstitious idea of inspiration. It is genius we must look to; and half of genius is work, work, work. The sooner the moderns come to that common-sense idea, the sooner will we have better art. Then the crudities of to-day may become the perfections of to-morrow. As the pianoforte of the present is so different from, and so superior to that of Beethoven's time, we cannot expect the piano compositions of the present day to be exactly similar to those of his day. But there is great scope for fine pianoforte composition from the very fact of the greater capabilities of the modern instrument, and great honor for the genius to come who shall turn these capabilities to account.

Whilst we worship at the feet of the old masters, let us chide gently the moderns, and above all, let us encourage American composers and pianists, and it may be that the coming genius shall arise out of the shadow of "Liberty enlightening the world." If we indulge such a hope we must not remain idle—waiting for inspiration. God helps those who help themselves. Our work may lie in different fields but there is work for all. Much of the musical future of America depends upon the work to be done now. Some must compose, others write and lecture, organize musical papers, societies, and conventions, and thus create a musical spirit and a correct taste. Still others may advance the cause of music by making good studies. This seemed the vocation of my father. Having received a thorough university education and studied under some of the great music masters, particularly Hummel, at Weimar, with whom he was a great favorite, he brought to the task a trained and logical mind as well as unbounded musical enthusiasm. The making of a "scientific system of piano-forte instruction" he constituted his life-work, and I believe it will stand, when it becomes thoroughly known, a monument to his memory.

Teaching is perhaps the most important branch of the great work, for upon that depends the grand and good and high school of piano-forte playing, be it old or new. I am proud to belong to that noble band of workers. Concert playing and teaching has been my life work and it is no little satisfaction to me to be able to point out to so many future successful concert players and teachers in various parts of the country, who have sat at the feet of the old masters through me. But many of the modern teachers may not train as severely as I was trained in the old schools, or require as much of pupils as I do. Such had been my drilling in the old school, that at ten years of age I could play all the preludes and fugues of Bach, Hummel's concertos and other works of the old masters from memory. At twelve, I made my debut in the Rondo brillante for piano and orchestra by Hummel. In commenting on this subject of the old school of piano playing, it seems to me the writer mixes, somewhat, his weakness upon modern composers and pianists with the means of arriving at the art of piano playing. He says, "Now, as to all this talk about technic, don't you think it is time to cry halt? Where are we drifting to with all this music schooling? What will become of all our revered classics if subjected to this ruthless treatment of modern piano-forte touch, and I may add the modern finger action—? Now, I beg pardon if I misinterpret this, but I do not see its relevancy. I would respectfully ask if

good technic is a hindrance to good piano playing; and if strong and flexible muscles are incompatible with a correct, poetic, and musically interpretation? Or, is it to be feared that the technic of Liszt or Rubinstein will sweep away our classics? I think not. It is too nearly an axiom for discussion that for good piano playing of any school, celerity, facility, accuracy, strength, and flexibility of finger, hand, and wrist are absolutely requisite.

Old masters, as well as new, have anxiously sought a short road to these qualities and any invention that conduces to the acquirement of them should not be derided by artists, because they acquired their technic in the good old way, but be hailed with joy that the coming generation of pianists may not have to travel the same tedious road.

I traveled that road myself, and I felt the need of a shorter, smoother, plainer, and more direct road; and I felt it to be a growing need as the capacities and grandeur of our pianoforte grew. As to how that need is to be supplied I have before expressed my opinion, but I do not wish to be understood as recommending any contrivance to take the place of real piano entirely for practice, though some people seem to think so. A moderate use of a mechanical appliance will certainly develop technic.

No, Mr. Editor, it is not time to cry halt to the study of technic, but when that technic is devoted to the playing of bad and sensational music, to the neglect of the good and beautiful, and when good teachers out of pure and unadulterated prejudice, disparage an instrument that will do as much good as any contrivance will, then, indeed, it is time to cry "halt!"

CARLYLE PETERSILEA.

HARMONIC ANALYSIS.

FOR THE ETUDE.

How frequently, while listening to some one reading aloud from a book or paper, have we been placed on nettles by their indistinct and almost incoherent articulation as well as by their stopping to spell out the more unfamiliar words. We are more astonished at such an exhibition, when we reflect that this very person has lived and grown up amid cultured society and has perhaps enjoyed the advantages of a school education. We often notice the same defects in those that essay to read music; and surely if reading is synonymous with interpretation, we must object to the use of the term and substitute spelling as a more fit expression.

While in teaching language, it is important to call constant attention to the component elements of a word, yet it must not be merely as A, B, C, but as definite sounds represented by these letters. We are not influenced to gain a conception of the word by repeating over its letters and listening to them, but rather by considering the looks and sounds of the word as a whole. More than this, we must see at a glance its context, and by a quick interpretation of its relation to the other words in the sentence, may we give it its proper pronunciation and emphasis.

One may learn the A, B, C, notation of music, and thus spell out the notes of a chord on the piano; but unless one learns, at the same time, the relation of these combined tones to each other, and to what precedes and follows, it is senseless to pronounce them.

Although the variety of tonal combinations and musical forms seem endless, yet the elements employed in their production of this variety are comparatively few and in its essence simple.

In order then to unravel all the intricacies of musical form and to gain a clear insight into the subject, it is primarily necessary that these elements should be thoroughly learned. They must indeed become as many and familiar friends, to be recognized at all times and under all circumstances. We must know them by their form, by their dress, and by their voice; whether in the solitary morning stroll we meet them one by one, or at the festive dance we find them all assembled, all

talking at once, flitting here and there, ever restless like the waves of the ocean, often masked in stranger forms, yet we must our familiarity with the anatomy and the ways of each be so perfect, that the head, the hand, the foot,—a single gesture from any will effect its identification.

Herein, then, lies the necessity for a practical knowledge of the harmonic analysis of musical composition, by which this acquaintance with the elements and their possible combinations may be made known to us and become clearly defined.

Only a limited number of those who make a study of instrumental or vocal music have either the talent or the time to become composers of music; and yet none can do without an accurate knowledge of musical construction.

It is not sufficient that we read a great deal of music. We might read (spell out) Bach and Haydn till the eye tired, and very few of us even with careful reading and study, could, in the end, have learned very little that he could appropriate in his own invention, besides, such blind study must be attended with the utmost weariness and ultimate disgust.

We may liken one who listens to music without being able to follow the direction of its melodic flow in the windings of its harmonic successions, or without having any intelligent conception of the adjustment and balancing of the different parts of the symphony to a traveler on a railway coach, shutting his window and closing his shutters, he shrugs himself into his great coat and lies down to be rocked to sleep by the motion of the rushing train. Naught sees he of the varied and passing beauty. Nature's grandest revelations are to him a sealed book. Even the gentle breeze of heaven fails not to his brow. He feels the rhythm. He hears the rumble. He is content. He dreams on to the end.

D. DEP. BRYANT.

Pupils' Department.

Never attempt to degrade another with a view to exalt yourself; this is not uncommon, but it is uncommonly sinful and base.

Knowledge is a comfortable and necessary retreat and shelter for us in an advanced age; and if we do not plant it while young, it will give us no shade when we grow old.—Cheever.

Never trust to a single hearing of composition for a final decision upon its merits. Good music wears well, improving with each new performance, while the pleasure of trashy works is evanescent.

MAKE A BEGINNING.—We sometimes dream of certain things we would like to do; we even go so far as to plan some things out. But we never begin the execution of them. Once begun, we should be reasonably sure of carrying them to completion. The real hindrance is the fact that we never begin. Many of us can accomplish much more than we do by simply going ahead and doing the things that present themselves to be done. This applies, of course, more especially to work aside from, but collateral to, our ordinary avocations.

There is a vast difference between studying music and merely learning to play a few pretty pieces when you go home. Which are you doing?

"My music is too easy, I haven't had a hard piece this session." The mere mechanical difficulty of a piece is not the only thing to be considered; it is far better to play a simpler piece well, than to scramble over a lot of arpeggios and scales, and call that playing a piece.

An eminent authority has said that the latest step of modern musical refinement is to play the embellishments and to allow smoothness of sonata work, yet as a rule those movements present no great technical difficulties. The most difficult part of playing is to get the effect of your piece, not merely to gabble over the notes of it.—J. W.

Description of non-textual elements:
- The page is a scanned magazine page with three dense columns of text. Center top displays the title "THE ETUDE." in large uppercase letters; the page number "77" appears at the top right. There are decorative horizontal rules and small ornamental typographic dividers separating sections (for example around the "HARMONIC ANALYSIS." heading). The "Pupils' Department." heading is rendered in a decorative, stylized font. The page edges show slight darkening and marginal artifacts from the scan. No photographic images or illustrations are present.
78

THE ETUDE.

Only that which appeals to my spirit can fertilize it. Nothing appears to me more hollow and foolish than to intrude oneself into something unintelligible and unsympathetic. A waltz of Strauss, that I enjoy, a little ballad that speaks to my soul, avails me more and is more valuable to me than the most sublime mass of Bach that I cannot comprehend. Let each one remain true to himself, unconcerned whether that which he loves is classed high or low by connoisseurs. The "little modest violet" blooms for thousands and thousands to whom the second part of Faust is a sealed book.

But love and devotion for the art is already a definite activity. Let the commencement be as lowly and modest as may be; but look beyond, around thee, and cease not to strive onward. Strive ever for progress so long as truth and real inclination for the subject live in thee.

Whatever has pleased us, we long to repeat; but we must also use ourselves to perceive and estimate the contrary of that which has pleased us: after the bold march, the tranquil ballad; after the splendid symphony, the elegant quartette, the thoughtful sonata. If there our sympathy comes short, we must call reason and perception to our aid. Was it only the power and magnificent coloring of the orchestra which impressed me in this symphony? Why does not then every regimental march produce the same? The tonal purport, at least the melody, is, with most persons a most powerful medium in producing the emotions that music calls forth, just as the most clownish spectator of a painting distinguishes, not only a chaos of colors, but also the figures to which these colors are appropriate. Here, then, commences development from within. The pupil distinguishes, perceives, he analyses effects of instrumentation and of melody, and thus first becomes conscious of the multiplicity of means that must flow together to make the work of art. And this consciousness is the best incentive to increase the love and ardent desire for progress. Let no one depreciate these first steps, however unsteady and feeble they may be, however inappreciable their result.

Whatever we obtain through our own striving, fructifies and avails us more than all that can reach us from without; it signifies nothing whence came the first impulse, nor what is its rest. — MARX.

The mechanism must be perfect. Just as the most able rhetorician gains does not suffice to make an orator if the tongue stutters, halts, or is incapable of speech, in like manner neither the most extraordinary understanding of all compositions, nor the most luxuriant fancy suffice to make a pianist, if the mechanism is faulty. Wherever the slightest deficiency is perceptible, the perfection of the whole is wanting. The most imperceptible weakness hinders the perfect manifestation of the ideal. And neither the profoundest riches of thought, nor the most delicate, the faintest touches of feeling, suffice, when a hardened finger-tip, a stiff joint, or an awkward motion place obstacles in the way of realization by the will of that which it aims to effect. The mechanism is a material which must possess a softness, quickness, and delicacy thoroughly corresponding to the ethereal spirit of musical art. The slightest neglect leaves a hard spot, liable to flaws; in a material which should be immediately and very sensitively affected by the most delicate touches of fancy when plastically shaping its tones. Where more understanding prevails, and the fingers singlishly resist, the performance becomes a sort of repulsive hybrid, filling a characterless sphere between abstraction and art, a species of incomprehensible symbolism, deficient in beauty because of faulty proportions between its constituent parts. — ADOLPH KULLAK.

HARD WORK. — Music study demands an abundance of hard work. Pupils who do not work are left on the road like the lame and the beggar. If highly endowed minds attribute all their achievements to hard work how can the average mind expect results without it? To habits of industry, love of toil, and patient drudgery, we must look to our ultimate success, not only in music but in every department of life. With the indefatigable industry of great musicians we are all quite familiar, we find great literary men likewise attribute everything to hard work. Here is the verdict of some of the most noted ones:

"What is your secret of success?" asked a lady of Turner, the distinguished painter. He replied, "I have no secret, madam, but hard work."

Says Dr. Arnold, "The difference between one boy and another is not so much in talent as in energy."

"Nothing," says Reynolds, "is denied well-directed labor, and nothing is to be attained without it."

"Excellence in any department," says Johnson, "can now be attained only by a lifetime; it is not to be purchased at a lesser price."

"There is but one method," said Sydney Smith, "and that is hard labor; and a man who will not pay the price for distinction, had better dedicate himself to the pursuit of the fox."

"Step by step," reads the French proverb, "one goes very far."

"Nothing," says Mirabeau, "is impossible to the man who can will. Is that necessary? 'That shall be.' This is the only law of success."

AN EPISODE FROM THE LIFE OF BEETHOVEN. — When Beethoven was about to publish his great work, the Ninth Symphony, he asked, through the intervention of Prince Hatzfeldt, King Frederick Wilhelm III., of Prussia, for permission to dedicate this composition to his Majesty, the Monarch, in whose dominion he was born. The King graciously gave his consent, and after receiving the original score, however, the great composer with an autograph letter bearing the date of November 25th, 1826, in which he wrote: "I am most agreeably delighted in receiving the work of an artist, whose fame is so universal, and whose compositions are so justly celebrated throughout the musical world. I thank you most cordially, and I send you enclosed a diamond ring as a token of my high esteem." Beethoven was not a little disappointed, when he found, on opening the casket, in place of a costly gem, a reddish looking stone, whose value was tested by an expert jeweler as not exceeding one hundred and sixty florins, (about sixty dollars). The package containing the ring, however, had not, as was usually the case, the royal seal attached, but that of the Austrian Embassy, to which office it was handed for forwarding it to Beethoven, then living in Vienna. Beethoven's first impulse was to return the gift; but, alas! the spectre of want and poverty staring him in the face, he sold the ring at its taxation value, and said no more about it. Shortly after his death (March 1827) the Berlin and Vienna official circles were one day surprised to learn of the sudden and summary dismissal of the Secretary of the Austrian legation in Berlin, Director Wernhard.

Beethoven soon got over the vexatious ring affair, when he learned of the enthusiastic reception by the public, of the Ninth Symphony, in the capital of Prussia. — G. S. ENSEL.

THE MODERN SCHOOL OF PIANO-PLAYING.

BY JAMES HUNEKER.

Editor of the Etude:

Knowing your paper to be perfectly fair, I am constrained to answer the writer in the March issue of the article entitled "The Old School of Piano Playing." I don't know the gentleman's (or lady's) name, but I do know it is written in a very prejudiced style and from a one-sided point of view altogether, notwithstanding the writer's liberal disclaimer to that effect. Any fair-minded person must acknowledge at once that not only pianism, but the art of piano building has made immense strides in the last fifty years, and that a return to the old chordal methods is practically an admission that the clavichord and the old-fashioned piano is better than our modern grand or upright. How insipid, indeed, would the old-fashioned pearly touch sound in the broad, manly compositions of Beethoven, Schumann, aye, and even Bach, or in the much-abused Liszt repertoire. The "scratch with a tune at the end of it," as the tone of the spinet was designated, needed no doubt a dainty little push with the finger tips, but who could play that way on a modern instrument and in modern compositions? No; the truth of the matter is our old fogey friend (if we will pardon the expression) can't keep pace with the times, and, failing to do so, falls back on reminiscence and recrimination, hints at pearly scales, and tells us we don't know how to play legato. Heaven save the mark; what, then, does he call legato? Not that hopping from key to key in the old-fashioned manner, letting the tone, so to speak, escape at each note. These so-called pearly scales, what are their aesthetic value in the grand compositions of our modern pianists? Full of sonorous and many-colored chords? They are valueless, except where a certain kind of shading is required. They may be pearls, but after all pearls are pale compared to rubies, and diamonds sparkle more than either. I admit there is much banging nowadays, but it arises from the fact that the banger knows nothing about that subdued pressure touch that seems so to have excited the ire of our old fogey friend. He even has the temerity to quote Wm. Mason, an ardent exponent of the elastic pressure touch, and who even plays Mozart and Hummel with that very same touch. Color, in a word, is the bane of the old school; they would play everything with the same unvarying touch. Now the modern touch, while quite as singing when necessity requires it, is able to interpret every class of composition it meets with. Go play a Bach fugue or prelude with the pearly touch and then the elastic pressure and see if the interpretation does not gain vastly. All compositions written for the piano must not only sing, but some must be declaimed, so to speak. Where would be the pearly touch in some dramatic episodes from Schumann or Chopin? See how inadequate it is to express the ideas contained in the music. I purposely refrain from quoting any of the late composers, particularly those who are so unfortunate as to possess "barbaric names," but will quote the only two names having of our old-fashioned friend would infer. Now, as regards the assertion that the old masters are being neglected, nothing is further from the truth. A glance at the curriculum of any conservatories will show the names of Bach, Mozart, and even Hummel, although Hitz, Kalkbrenner, Mayer, and even Thalberg, are rapidly sinking into oblivion, nevermore do I hope to be revived. They were doubtless great virtuosi, and Thalberg's touch must have been exquisite, but then his compositions are another thing altogether. Great pianists as he was, his greatness was laid within very narrow lines, and as an interpretative artist he ranked by no means high. His beautiful touch was again stiff; it never could interpret anything but opera fantasies, nocturnes, etc. Here is a glaring example of the one-sided touch business. Listen to Rubinstein's — observe his arms, wrist, and hand movement and you will realize the greater breadth of modern pianoforte playing. Even if it has its drawbacks, what then? Perfection is never realized. We must always strive. Look how Weber, Beethoven, and others were ahead of the instruments of their day. We must never stand still, and who can predict what the piano of the future will be like? Maybe that long-wished for sustaining tone may be reached, and then it will indeed be the ideal instrument. Until then, however, we must endeavor to get all we can from the piano, and this can only be attained by the pressure touch. The classics will always endure, but trashy operas have fashionable readings in vogue that will alter the course of pianism; but in calling the modern school the monopolist of classical interpretation we err. It is simply legato, but every device of coloration, intensity, and gradation as applied by the modern school and as taught in the conservatories is nothing but better knowledge of the old school. It differs mainly in producing more coloring, more tone, more brilliant percussive effects and in finer shading. We have, in truth, the sonorous quality of sound not always the result of the pianoforte alone but of the player, and of the modern technical resources.

(End of visible page text.)

Description of non-textual elements:
The image is a grayscale reproduction of a magazine page (page number 78) with the masthead "THE ETUDE." across the top center. The page contains three columns of dense serif type with occasional small section headings and a decorative small typographic ornament separating items. There are no photographs or illustrative drawings on the page—only typographic ornaments and the printed text. The page shows slight wear and minor speckling from the scanning process.
THE ETUDE. 79

THE WORLD WITHOUT LOVE.

"Was ist unserem Herzen die Welt ohne Liebe!
Was eine Zaubersphäre ist ohne Licht." — GOETHE.

BY MISS E. B. Y., FOR THE ETUDE.

Like a darkened magic lantern,
Ere the flame within burns bright,
Casting glowing colored figures,
On the wall, once cold and white.

Like that lantern was my heart, dear,
Ere I saw your winsome face.
Ere the lamp within was lighted
By the magic of your grace.

As the flame burns bright and brighter,
So the lovely pictures rise;
All the world is full of beauty,
Through the rosy tints and dyes.

May the light be never darkened;
May the picture that is there,
Leave us but a single moment,
Only changed for one more fair.

THE "MUTE PIANO-FORTE."

FOR THE ETUDE, BY T. L. KREBS.

The February number of THE ETUDE contained an article on "Mechanical Appliances as Promoters of Piano-forte Technique," by Mr. Carlyle Petersen, on which I would like to make a few remarks.

In my article over "Piano-forte Technique" in the same issue, I have expressed an opinion as to the value of mechanical appliances generally, in their relation to piano-forte playing; but Mr. Petersen's article gives me occasion to be more explicit on some points, and I will therefore in a few words review what he has said as far as it treats on the mute piano-forte.

Scholars cannot be expected to learn the difference between the sound of major and minor, nor the difference in the pitch of the various keys without hearing them. They must constantly hear themselves play; must give the closest attention to every tone they strike to make sure that a good tone has been produced; to every chord that they may tell when all keys have been struck evenly together, one with as much force as another; to every scale and broken chord to observe whether all notes are played evenly and well connected. In each of these cases it is necessary for the scholar to judge by the tone, and it is evident that when practicing on the mute piano they are like those who grope in the dark. They may possibly strike notes and chords clearly and play scales and broken chords clearly and evenly, but the probability is that they will not.

Every teacher knows how difficult it is for some scholars to remember what the signatures and the compositions is which they are studying, and in how many cases their hearing tells them what is right or wrong. Every teacher knows how difficult it is to get scholars to observe the signatures and accidentals after they get in the habit of ignoring them.

Nobody can be more anxious to see and make use of means that will contribute to the comfort of a teacher so long, weary hours of toil at the piano, and with joy I will hail the instrument which shall relieve the community at large from the piano practice nuisance, without impairing the development of true piano-forte playing.

Mr. Petersen assures us that "nearly all the great pianists have found some dumb contrivances, etc." I know of only a few who have made use of them. Schumann might have been a great pianist had he not made use of "dumb contrivances" to strengthen the fourth finger of his right hand.

When scholars become "sick" of the sound of the piano, it is in many cases the fault of the teacher who fails to interest them in the work. Often the cause is in the instrument itself. We cannot blame scholars for becoming "sick" of the sound of some pianos.

There are many scholars who, with very little or no talent and no zeal and diligence, are obliged to study music. They drag along from week to week, month to month, and year to year, without the least desire to become good performers and without the least attention to the instruction they receive. Such scholars also become "sick" of the sound of the piano; "sick" of everything connected with study of any kind. Could any one advise a certain class of the mute piano-forte in this case?

Below I give in italics the words in which Mr. Petersen sums up the merits of his invention, the mute piano-forte, with my comments in ordinary type.

It insures that accuracy of touch that no merely mechanical device can.

That is, in other words, it is in every respect at least equal to a real piano in developing the touch. This I most emphatically dispute. As I have mentioned in the February ETUDE scholars must get the touch by the tone they produce, and as the mute piano, as its name implies, does not emit any tone the scholar has nothing from which to tell what degree of force to apply. While he may with the thumb or index finger produce a strong tone without any great effort, it will take considerable effort to produce a tone of equal force with the fourth or fifth finger, and scholars will be tempted to think they are striking much harder with these fingers than they did strike with the first or second, unless they have the tone to tell them how hard they struck.

It strengthens the muscles necessary for piano playing at least four times as much in the same length of time as practice on the ordinary piano does.

We cannot see any reason why this should be so. The absence of sound can surely not bring about such wonderful results. If it had been stated that "it strengthens the muscles necessary for piano playing as much, etc.," instead of "at least four times as much," it might be more plausible.

The unusually heavy action of a piano or mute piano may make the touch strong, but it will invariably produce a clumsy and awkward touch. A strong touch is not necessarily a good touch. What all pianists must have in order to perform well is a touch which in all degrees of power and speed is completely under control of the mind. A thoughtless thumping upon the keyboard however strong, is only an awkward action that will not under any circumstances result in a good pianistic style. The only way to get a good touch is to hear it and thereby learn to regulate the weight and the firmness of the fingers. Heavy and ungainly movements must be avoided, while all elegance and finish in tone production must be acquired by listening.

This action can be graduated to the strength of the person, and thereby promotes delicacy of touch.

Upon the strength of the entire body of a child, or of a man, it falls upon the fingers, of course, as a child grows older, the fingers, of course, gain strength, and while it would be well enough to be enabled to graduate the strength of a mute piano to suit the hands of a pupil and thereby prevent overstraining the little muscles of the child's hands, yet, if it were done in such a way as to prevent the pupil from hearing the sound, it would be a most pernicious plan; for it is not sound only that builds up the touch, but the combination of sight and sound and the sensibility that comes through the ear and sensation of resistance in the keys. To deprive the child of these helps is to deprive him of the very means by which he acquires skill.

It is more sanitary than the ordinary piano.

This is a very bold assertion which, however, cannot be backed by proof. In fact, it is utterly without foundation. It stands to reason that more beneficial and satisfactory practice can be done on a piano where scholars can hear what they are playing than on an instrument on which no sound is produced save the rattling of the keys.

The mute piano-forte very much tempts scholars to acquire, and confirms them in, the bad habit of looking at the keys instead of the notes, because they are not sure of having struck the right key, and must look at the keyboard in order to make sure that they have struck what they intended to strike, while in practicing on a piano they could in most cases judge by the sound. The mute piano also favors the bad habit of holding notes too long and not long enough.

Being mute it prevents the strain on the nervous system that the continuous sound of monotonous technical work on the piano-forte occasions.

Yes; and being mute it tempts scholars to fail into that careless, dreamy manner of practicing, which will be sure to keep them from ever becoming good players so long as they drag and dangle through their studies, thinking of anything but their work before them. If there ever was an invention which for this one reason deserved to be condemned, it surely is the mute piano-forte.

Being a seven and one-third octave key-board, the most exacting programmes can be performed on it.

Is it in this respect superior to the piano? It reaches only to break music and not practice it from ear.

How does it teach pupils to think music when there is no music in it?

Scholars cannot "think" music before they know what music is. Thumping on the mute piano-forte will not teach them what music is.

It saves the use of the ears in the wear and tear of a piano.

Let us take it for granted that this is just as stated. Then the question arises: Is the instrument of money saved by this way by the mute piano-forte a compensation for the injury it does and the time that is wasted on it?

The answer is no; for it will take many times the cost of a mute piano-forte to pay the teacher whose unceasing task it will be to rid the scholar of his bad habits and faults acquired through practice on the mute piano-forte, not to say anything of the time that has been wasted in useless work. When scholars can perform well enough that a piano will not be injured by using it, I see no reason why they should be denied the use of a fine instrument.

Even if $22.50 (half the cost of one of Mr. Petersen's mute piano-fortes) were saved in one year on the wear and tear of a fine instrument it would take from thirty-five to fifty years' practice on the "dummy" before we could make it pay for a first-class piano.

It preserves the finish and evenness of the scales and arpeggios taught on the piano-forte and makes easy the acquiring of a perfect legato and detached touch.

How can this be when the scholar in practicing on it cannot judge of the tone, and must therefore be left to a mechanical sense of touch which is not the true sense necessary? It is the ear that corrects and instructs the hand and this the mute piano cannot do.

Finally, the statement is made that most of the difficulties of beginners are to be traced to the want of strength in the fingers; that the mute piano-forte will obviate this difficulty, and thereby in many cases render long continued labor unnecessary.

If this were true it would be a great advantage; but it is not true unless the scholars are able to hear as well as feel the tone. To develop strength is one thing; to develop strength with delicacy and control is another. The latter can only be gained by hearing.

I have now pretty fully discussed the merits and demerits of the mute piano-forte. I admit that it may be of some use in teaching some certain mechanical points, but as a general appliance to be used in the place of the piano it is a dangerous contrivance and should be discouraged.

THE DEPPE SYSTEM VINDICATED.

Editor of The Etude:

My attention has been called to an article in the February issue of your journal, in which an attack is made on me. I would state that I never answer anonymous attacks; but, on Deppe's account, I feel obliged to take some notice of the article. If a person has not sufficient courage of his opinions to sign his name he has no right to attack the character and reputation of any one. The article in question contains many errors and misrepresentations. I am at a loss to know what is meant by the statement that "Deppe's system is a device whereby the child is compelled to sit off balance." I never thought it necessary to teach children to sit off balance. I teach them to sit erect, to use their arms freely, and to employ the muscles properly. I have taught many children who, by following the rules of the Deppe method, have become excellent pianists. The idea that the system degenerates into "mechanical playing" is absurd. If a pupil is taught to use his arms and fingers properly, and to listen to the tone, he cannot be a machine-player. It is true that there are some teachers who under the pretense of the Deppe method practise mere technical drills, but that is not the fault of the system. The Deppe method, rightly used, is as musical as any method can be. —H. DEPPE.

[There are small ornamental rules and typographic devices dividing sections and columns, with the page laid out in three narrow columns beneath the centered header THE ETUDE. The paper shows age-toning and speckling; no photographic images are present besides ornamental lines and typographic flourishes. The top center bears the title THE ETUDE in large capitals; the page number 79 is at top right. The page has a thin black border along the left and top edges from the scan, and slight shading and spots across the page indicative of an old printed periodical.]
80

THE ETUDE.

My antagonist, in his zeal for attacking the Deppe method, should not allow the facts to get away with him. He begins by saying that Deppe is an "obscure violinist." Now, will he please give his authority for this statement? Deppe is not a violinist, nor is he known in Germany as such. It is true that he began life with the study of the violin, as all orchestra conductors nearly do. He soon abandoned it for the baton, and has conducted ever since. It would be about as sensible to speak of Thomas and Damarose as "violinists," because they formerly played that instrument.

Deppe was called from Hamburg to Berlin expressly to conduct Stern's orchestra there during the latter's absence in Italy, which was a fine and old established orchestra. While I was studying with him he received a splendid offer to go to Wiesbaden to take charge of the orchestra there, which he refused. He is in the habit of conducting operatic and miscellaneous concerts in various parts of Germany, and recently he conducted a musical festival in Silesia. As a proof of my statements I will refer "Boston" to Kiel, the well-known composer in Berlin and teacher of composition in the Hochschule there; to Professor (Gustav) Engel, the critic of the Vossische Zeitung, the leading daily in Berlin; to Joachim, the great violinist; or to Taubert, the former conductor of the royal orchestra concerts at Berlin; or, if he would like authority nearer home, to Joseffy, whose first concerts with orchestras in Berlin Deppe conducted. I was present at one of those concerts, though it was long before I knew Deppe personally.

I had a call a day or two since from Mr. P. C. Lutkin, of Chicago, who has just returned from a three years' stay in Germany and Paris, where he has been finishing his musical education. He said "Deppe has nearly given up teaching. He is highly thought of as conductor, composer, and musician in Germany. He is at present absorbed in conducting and in composition."

My own experience in teaching has wholly confirmed me in the opinions I express in my book, Music Study in Germany, of the value of his method. Far from being too "enthusiastic" over it, I never considered that I had done him half justice!

My class has been largely composed of teachers from all over the West, who were eager to learn Deppe's method. In every case, after studying with me they have written to express their delight with the results both in their own playing and with that of their pupils. They say they have improved as they never had before. I can point with pride to Miss Alice Heald, the head of the musical department in Carleton College, at Northfield, Minn., a young lady of brilliant musical gifts; to Miss Ida MacLagen, head of the musical department of the Iowa State Normal School; and to Mrs. J. J. Jelley, who is at the head of the musical department in the Ohio State Normal School, all of whom give lessons at the rate of sixty per week, and who use the Deppe method with the greatest success. Besides these I have many letters from others who are private teachers, and they say with one exception that it has given them a command in teaching such as they never could have had without it.

I take no credit to myself in saying this, because I simply teach them as Deppe taught me, and transmit his ideas literally.

With regard to octave playing, I maintain that octaves must be practiced with a loose wrist. To practice them in any other way is highly dangerous. They can be played with high wrist or low wrist. There must be a certain contraction of the muscles in holding the notes, just as the muscles contract in catching firm hold of anything. That is not the point. It is in letting go. How much the wrist is in the brief space of time that elapses between letting go one octave and taking hold of the following one? It must be loose. The stiffness or firmness must be in the ends of the fingers, or in the first joint. The muscles of the arm must be supple, and rigidity avoided. It is because people practice octaves with stiff muscles of the arm that they often weaken and lame their wrists for life, and have to give up playing altogether. I teach my pupils, therefore, in the practice of octaves, to hold firmly with the fingers and

to sink with the wrist between each octave, towards the fifth finger of each hand, so as to compel the fifth fingers to be curved upon the keys, and to make the stretch from the thumb, which is naturally the stronger finger. I tell them to listen to their fifth fingers, and then they do it right instinctively, in endeavoring to equalize the tones of the thumb and fifth fingers and to prevent the thumb from predominating in loudness. In raising the hands from the keys I tell them to loosen the wrists. If you sink with the wrist in taking hold of an octave, you can rise with it better in letting go, on the same principle as when you strike a rubber ball against the floor it will rebound from it. The more rapidly an octave passage is played, the more imperceptible becomes the sinking of the wrist, because there is not time for it. The wrist looks as if it were high, but there will be a slight depression between each octave, just enough to prevent that the limberness is there. The best octavist player I know of in this country is Madame Teresa Carreno. I shall recommend "Boston" to hear her play the long octave passages in Gotschalk's arrangement of "Trovatore," if he wants to see elasticity of the wrist in octave playing.

In conclusion, I am obliged to "Boston" for finding my book, "immeasurably interesting," and but the Deppe part is, as a matter of fact, you have been before the public for three years, and since then I have received a perfect mass of letters from all parts of this country, and all of them inquiring about the Deppe method!

Please compare Mr. Sherwood's remarks, found in the last issue of The Etude with the description of the Deppe method in my book, pages 288, 289, and 293. They will be found identical. The "low seat," the "keeping the elbow "down and heavy." (Deppe said "your elbow must be held, and your wrist a feather"), the various wrist movements, and the keeping the outer side of the hand or that part of it which would naturally slope away high, all of these points are in Deppe's system, and all peculiar to him.

In speaking of the greatest artists and teachers of the world, I hope I shall always be "enthusiastic."

Very cordially,
AMY FAY.

MUSIC TEACHING AND THE PUBLIC.

BY LOUIS EHLERT.

THERE has been no lack of efforts, in recent times, to direct the musical judgment of the public into the right path. In his pamphlet, "Musical Judgment and its Development by Education," that appeared a few years ago, Dr. W. Langhans proposed to do much toward musical instruction, even in theory, compulsory in schools. This author started from wrong premises in supposing that everybody possessed a minimum of musical talent. While all those who have been occupied in teaching the theory of music know, that it may be taken for granted that any musical aptitude, even if it exists only in a slight degree, will be capable to a great extent of further development, if guided by the right means, it must not be expected that to give technical instruction to the masses will produce musicians in great numbers. The training of a vocal or instrumental artist is by no means a general one. There are not only individuals, but whole families, in whom the material of artistic talent is wanting. Therefore the desire of musical instruction in schools, so far as it is connected with "the competency of the public," should be limited. The people, stimulated by newspapers and the "musical" critics, look to exhibitions and public concerts for the acquirement of taste; that is, they are willing to be guided by the performances and the press. Now the editors of the newspapers and their reporters are able to create influence. But how much better would it be if the teaching of music, in the public schools, would be placed on a firmer basis, and trained teachers be the ones to utter this guidance? One should desire to give to the masses, not merely means of appreciation, but also elementary culture, which might be the foundation for a higher cultivation. However, every attempt at compulsory musical instruction in primary schools, if extended beyond certain limits, is likely to be attended with disappointment. The question is one of measure and method.

It appears to me that the important point is to awaken the interest of the public for the higher things. Such an awakening could be effected by an enlightened press, by organized musical life, by the formation of musical societies, by the independent action of competent musicians, and by a better training of music teachers.

They constitute an alarming portion of the music teacherhood. They are joined by the incompetent musician himself as their most dangerous element. He may perhaps play the flute in a small orchestra; but, aside from that, he teaches singing or piano-teaching. It is surely not his fault that there are so few duties in the world. But is it ours? The public is badly off. Has anyone to prosecute a lawsuit? He will rarely, if ever, call to his aid a petty lawyer. As for the courts, they are not well fitted to decide matters of taste or method in instruction. The best protection is public opinion; yet public opinion, unless enlightened, is a very uncertain tribunal. Public demand must be educated; organized musical life and competent criticism can best aid in this. The musician's duty is to instruct the public and to show by example and by well-trained teachers what thorough musical training can accomplish.

(There is a small ornamental rule here.)

From the Tone World is a new publication by Louis Ehlert, who is known in Germany as a vigorous writer and competent musical critic, and of his essays containing many original thoughts clothed in concise and forcible language. There is always more or less individuality in his translations, and the present volume is no exception. The translations are not mere versions, but contain a good deal of his own coloring and comment. The book will be found attractive to readers who desire clear and vigorous criticism. It is interesting as well as gratifying to observe how closely the plans of the American College of Musicians conform to the ideas of Ehlert. — Ed.

Description of non-textual content:
- The page is a scanned newspaper/magazine page (The Etude), page number 80, with three columns of text under the masthead "THE ETUDE." There are ornamental rules dividing sections and a small typographic ornament beneath one article. The page shows typical scan artifacts (speckling, slight smudges and some faint type in places). No photographs or pictorial illustrations are present.

Note: I transcribed the page carefully. A few short phrases near the ends of lines and in the rightmost column were faint and slightly indistinct in the scan; where wording seemed uncertain I selected the reading that best matches the visible type and context. If you would like a fully guaranteed character-for-character transcription or the faint areas rechecked, please provide a higher-resolution or less-contrasted crop of the rightmost column and I will re-examine and correct any remaining uncertainties.
18

PROGRESSIVE AND MELODIOUS STUDIES.

BOOK 3.

Selected and Arranged by

Allegretto.

LOUIS MEYER.

39.

(Several systems of piano music notation occupying most of the page, showing grand staves with treble and bass clefs, a key signature of one sharp, numerous notes, slurs, rests, and many small finger-number annotations beside notes. Dynamic markings visible in the music include mf and p in multiple places. The piece is written for piano with standard two-stave grand staff notation and contains bar lines, beamed notes, and occasional accent and phrasing marks.)

3358

Copyright, 1879, by F. A. NORTH & CO.
19

Allegretto.

40.

Allegro moderato.

41.

dolce.

p

f

F. A. N. & CO. 3388.

Description of non-textual content:
A full page of printed piano sheet music laid out in five grand-staff systems (each system showing treble and bass clefs). The music contains standard notation: staffs, clefs, key signature of two sharps (F# and C#), numerous notes and chords, slurs, beams, rests, and barlines. Many small fingering numbers (1–5) are printed above and below notes throughout. Dynamic markings appear in the score (p and f) near the music. The layout shows large section numbers at the left of systems (40 and 41). The page has a lightly speckled, aged border and small printer artifacts but no other printed words beyond those listed above.
20

Andantino.

42.

Andantino.

43.
legato dolce.

F. A. N. & CO. 3358.

Additional textual elements present but not as separate words: numerous small finger-number numerals (1, 2, 3, 4, 5) printed over and under notes throughout the staves.

Description of non-textual image content:
A scanned, slightly aged and speckled sheet-music page with darkened margins and a narrow black binding strip along the left edge. The page shows piano music on grand staves (pairs of treble and bass staves) with clefs, key signatures (flats), barlines, notes, beams, rests, slurs, and phrase markings. Many measures include printed fingerings (small digits 1–5) above or below notes, and there are ties and chord symbols as part of the musical notation. The overall printing is black on off-white paper, with small blemishes and edge wear consistent with an older printed music book.
20

Allegro risoluto. (♩ = 96.)

26.

f

p il basso marc.

mf

Ped.

*

f

p

mf

Ped.

*

Ped.

*

8va.............................

ff

dim.

Heller's 30 Progressive Exercises. Bk. 2. Student's Edition. Foreign Fingering.

Description of non-textual content:
- A printed piano sheet-music page (page 20) with five grand-staff systems of music notation. Each system shows treble and bass staves with clefs, a two-flat key signature, time signatures, many notes, slurs, beams, tuplets, finger numbers, dynamic markings, pedal markings (Ped. with asterisks for releases), and dotted lines indicating 8va sections. The music contains arpeggiated and broken-chord figures, wide-ranging left-hand octaves and sustained bass notes. The page has an aged, speckled background and a dark left-hand binding margin from the scan.
Transcribed text (as it appears on the page):

21

p

cres.

8va........
8va........
cres.

Ped.
*
Ped.
Ped.
*  Ped.
*

8va........
ff
Ped.
*
Ped.

Ped.
fz.
fz.
*

Heller's 30 Progressive Exercises. Bk. 2. Student's Edition. Foreign Fingering.

Description of non-textual content:

A scanned page of piano sheet music (page number 21) containing five systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs). The systems include many notes, slurs, beams, tuplets/arpeggio figures, key signatures (two flats), time signatures, stems and ledger lines. There are repeated performance markings: octave transposition lines (8va) shown with dotted lines, dynamic markings (p, ff), crescendo markings (cres.), multiple Ped. pedal markings with corresponding asterisk pedal-release marks, and accent/forzando-style marks (fz.). The page is slightly aged/grainy from scanning, with darker borders and some speckling.
20

EXERCISE.
Each exercise 20 times.

ETUDE.

Andante cantabile.

10.
e dolce.
p

il basso marcato.
il basso marcato.

Loeschhorn's Progressive Studies. Bk. I. Student's Edition. Foreign Fingering.

Additional visible notation text: numerous small finger-number annotations throughout the staves (examples visible include groups like "1 2 4", "3 5", and single digits near notes).

Non-textual image description:
A single printed page of piano sheet music (slightly aged and speckled). Top left shows a small boxed set of short exercises in musical notation under the heading "EXERCISE." A centered instruction above those measures reads "Each exercise 20 times." Below is a larger piece labeled "ETUDE." with the tempo marking "Andante cantabile." and the number "10." at the start of the first system. The page contains multiple grand-staff systems (treble and bass clefs) with musical notes, slurs, dynamics, and many tiny finger-number annotations adjacent to notes. Two places in the score are marked with the Italian direction "il basso marcato." There are pedal and dynamic markings (for example "p") and ornamental runs in the final measures. The left margin shows a dark binding edge. The printing is monochrome and shows some wear and speckling from age.
Extracted text (as seen on the page):

21

a tempo.
calando.
p e dolce.

poco a poco smorzando.

pp

Loeschhorn's Progressive Studies. Op. I. Student's Edition. Foreign Fingering.

Additional textual elements visible on the page:
- Numerous small finger numbers (1 2 3 4 5) printed above and below many notes throughout the staves.
- Dynamic markings such as p and f appear in the music (in addition to the final pp noted above).
- Measure and rehearsal-type numbers/figures printed above some bars (small numerals such as 1 2 3 4 5 in various places).

Non-textual image description (detailed):

- A single scanned page of aged sheet music with heavy border shading and some paper degradation (darkened edges and speckling). The page number "21" appears at the top right.
- The page contains multiple systems of piano music (grand staves: treble and bass clefs joined by braces). Each system shows standard music notation: melodic lines in the treble clef, arpeggiated accompaniment (broken-chord patterns) in the left hand, slurs, ties, beams, rests, clefs, staff lines, barlines and numerous finger-number annotations adjacent to notes.
- Musical expression marks are printed in italic-like text above and below the staves (examples: "a tempo.", "calando.", "p e dolce.", "poco a poco smorzando."), and dynamics (p, pp, f).
- There is a large darker ink/stain or smudge across the lower-middle left of the page that obscures some of the notation in that area.
- The bottom of the page contains a publisher/series line across the center: "Loeschhorn's Progressive Studies. Op. I. Student's Edition. Foreign Fingering." The very bottom right contains a final measure and dynamic marking (pp) followed by a small ending bracket of the staff.
7

No. 10.

a. Practice in a measured movement, with a firm blow, separating well the fingers.
b. Gradually increase the speed until the greatest ease and fluency are attained.
c. The wrist should not move about but be held firmly in its place.
d. The movement along the key board is effected by extending a finger, and then drawing the hand toward it, with a slight movement in the upper arm in a horizontal position.
e. This exercise should also be practised in 2 time in triplets. The left hand will receive the accent with the fourth finger in ascending, and the right receives it in descending. Let the fourth figure be strongly emphasized, but care should be taken that the legato be not disturbed by it.
f. This number can serve as a preparation for the one following.

No. 11.

a. It is the purpose of this trill exercise, first, to strengthen the weak portion of the hand, second, to cultivate equality of touch. Smoothness of execution is possible only when the flexibility and the strength of the fingers are equal, and with automatic control of the required movement.
b. The remarks a, b, and c, of the previous number are also to be here observed.
c. Where two sets of finger-marks appear, the upper set is preferable for the first practice, and one should be thoroughly mastered before the other is attempted.
d. The figure in the left hand in ascending should sound out clear and distinct, for additional practice, it can even be made more prominent than the right hand.

Description of non-textual images:
- The page contains multiple lines of piano music (treble and bass staffs) illustrating exercises for No. 10 and No. 11, with standard musical notation: clefs, notes, beams, rests, slurs, accents, triplet groupings, and many small fingering numbers above and below notes.
- Several measures show repeated arpeggiated and ostinato figures, with dynamics and phrasing marks.
- A large dark smudge or ink blot partially obscures the lower-right portion of one of the staves.
- The page shows age: light foxing/spotting, a dark left margin (scanner shadow or book gutter), and some edge wear.
I can read some portions of this page clearly, but large parts (particularly much of the right-hand column and fine-print analysis at bottom) are too small/blurred at this resolution to transcribe with full, reliable accuracy. If you can provide higher-resolution crops (one per column or a closer scan of the right half) I will produce a complete, exact transcription. Below I have transcribed verbatim the portions that are clearly legible, and I have described the non-textual elements on the page.

Header and page number
THE ETUDE.
89

Left column — fully legible poem and heading
THE FIRST ROBIN.
WRITTEN FOR THE ETUDE.

LISTEN! Spring is coming,
For I hear
Music in the tree-top,
Glad and clear.

Music sweet, and gushing,
From a throat
Swelling with rapture
Of its note.

Hark! the tone is perfect,
Pure and grand;
"Technique" is not needed,
Understand.

This is Nature's pupil;
Would you be,
Happy as the Robin
In the tree.

Be your heart with music,
Ever rife;
Let no passing discord
Grapple life.

Like the robin scatter,
Cheerful tone;
Pour in other hearts the joy,
Of your own.

Where life's stormy winters
Sadness bring,
Let your mission herald
Coming Spring.

Cornelia J. M. Jordan.

March 18, 1885.

Left column — beginning of article (clearly legible opening paragraphs)
A GOOD PIANO TOUCH.

The first efforts of the piano teacher should be devoted to the acquisition by the pupil of a good touch. Later it is more difficult to acquire it, although it can be done. The future unfolding of fine technical ability, which is to enable the player to express himself understandingly and effectively, depends entirely upon a correct touch. All teachers, and all persons of common sense, for that matter, know that in concert artists one finds it almost unnecessary to correct habits once settled; it takes much more time and study on the part of the pupil — and more ingenuity on the part of the teacher — to eradicate them and to secure better ways. Bad habits arise from crude natural playing and are about the same in all pupils. One might imagine that habits due to nature would be the best and most correct in their results, but this is not true. In many senses only, in another sense it is not true, for the finer training many require the individual to commit acts from the sense only. We must, therefore, strive for the highest nature, or rather the better part of the whole, and cultivate right methods in all pupils. ... [text beyond this point in this column becomes too small/blurred for fully accurate single-step transcription; I can transcribe the remainder if you send a higher-resolution crop of the left column’s lower two-thirds]

Center column — clearly legible section about legato and touch (verbatim up to the point where print becomes too small)
This important point, from which the whole art of a beautiful style of playing or singing has been evolved, cannot be disregarded without making expression, phrasing, and shading an impossibility. A more staccato or rattle is produced resembling the music of uncivilized nations or savages. Just as a house can not stand unless its foundation is good, just as there be no beautiful art unless certain fundamental principles have been well secured. These principles are exactly the same in all instrumental and vocal music, and the piano, therefore, exemplifies them perfectly.

That which the pupil should learn to do from the beginning, is to hold down the keys, not leaving one until the next is being struck, in such a manner that the ear will clearly perceive the continuation and blending of one sound into the next. This joining of key to key and sound to sound is called the legato (binding), and should be first practised exclusively until it has become of second nature. The staccato or short striking of the keys, in perfect contrast to the legato, comes in at a later point of study. Let the pupil make it a rule, at first, to raise the finger previous to striking, then hold down the key while the next finger is raised and brought down to produce the next tone. At this very moment, but not sooner, the finger that had previously struck, is allowed to leave its key.

This manner of playing is continued from key to key and tone to tone, producing a series of sounds so perfectly joined to each other that no intervening space is observable. When the pupil has once learned to "hold and raise" the fingers invariably at the same moment, the fundamental of correct piano playing is laid and the most essential part of a good touch acquired. The so-called pressure-touch, by which tone is produced by pressing upon the key without raising the fingers, belongs to a later period of practice and is of great use to the artist. The beginner is apt not to get it, and the attempt to acquire it generally develops the wrist-jerk to get tone. The premature endeavor to learn the more difficult pressure-touch is, therefore, to be avoided. The raising of the fingers on the other hand, associated with perfect legato, teaches the pupil what is required and what a good touch really means. When this is once understood the battle is nearly won, and when, after thorough practice the player is able to execute a perfect legato almost any touch that results in good, can be introduced. — Art Critic.

Center-bottom heading (clearly legible)
A MUSIC LESSON.

Right column — partially legible beginning and headings
(A MUSIC LESSON continues as an analysis/lesson of Beethoven's SONATA IN G (Op. 14, No. 2), BEETHOVEN, 1770–1827.)

The clearer, legible fragments in the right column include phrases such as:
SONATA IN G (Op. 14, No. 2), BEETHOVEN, 1770–1827.
Allegro in G, 2 time ( = 84.)
Andante in C,  = 60.
Scherzo, Allegro assai in G,  = ( = 76).
The first movement is in sonata movement form (p. 4). Mark bars 9, 12, 21, 24, 27, 46, 58, 64, 65, 70, 75, 82, 99, 108, 126, 128, 135, 133, 138, 149, 153, 174, 177, 188, 190, 193, 197, ... [the remainder of the bar numbers and detailed structural analysis are too small to reproduce accurately at this resolution].

Non-textual image description
- The page is a printed three-column magazine page (The Etude) with the title THE ETUDE centered at top. Decorative horizontal rules separate the header and the columns.
- There are no photographs on the page; the only non-textual elements are typographic ornaments: thin lines under section headings, and small decorative emblems/dividers between sections. No pictorial illustrations or musical stave graphics are clearly visible at this scan resolution.

If you want a complete, accurate extraction of every word (including every fine-print bar-number and the rest of the Beethoven analysis), please upload higher-resolution crops of:
- the lower two-thirds of the left column,
- the entire right-hand column,
- and a close-up of the center-bottom “A MUSIC LESSON” area.

I will then transcribe every remaining line exactly.
90

THE ETUDE.

peated, 81–88; but afterwards, at its return, Beethoven
shortens the passage, and repeats only the second four
bar section, 114–122, making also a tiny coda out of the
last three notes, 120–124.
This sonata has been said to illustrate a quarrel be
tween man and wife, the man having the last growl; ac
cording to Schnider, Beethoven explained it as a dia
logue between two lovers, he entreating, she resisting.
Perhaps it is rather a pity to limit the meaning of music
by any attempt at explanation in words. The work was
published in 1799, and written probably not much
earlier.

I. Which two notes show the passage 23–26 to be in
E Minor?
II. Find an example of pedal-bass.
III. In what key is the passage beginning at 174?
IV. What sort of a cadence is the 6th in 177?
V. Point out an example of cross-accents in the coda.

HOW TO MEMORIZE MUSIC.*

BY W. S. B. MATHEWS, FROM STUDIES IN PHRAISING,
MEMORIZING, AND INTERPRETATION.

THE habit of playing without notes is the next best
to "playing by ear." The latter mode, although often
and indeed generally imperfect in details, is, never
theless, much more charming and inspiring than the most
correct and well- coached performance from notes. The
latter is somewhat cold ; the former warm and full of
musical life. It is the ideal of study to enable every
pupil to perform his pieces with such freshness and spirit
as to make them seem like improvisations. This quality
in playing is by far too rarely attained by students.
However talented they may have appeared in childhood,
and however spirited their performance of the little airs
then played by ear, they soon lose it all in favor of a
merely cold correctness. All this is wrong and due to
improper modes of study. They continue their
early habit of playing by heart, their performance would
never have lost its freshness.
The practice of memorizing is recommended to all: to
the gifted in order that they may retain their original
charm of playing ; to those somewhat less quick of ear,
in order that they may in this way fill their minds with
musical thoughts (phrases and melodies), and not only
be always ready to play, but also to do so with that
freedom which is possible only when the player thor
oughly knows his piece.
In order to memorize a piece of music three conditions
are essential:

1. Slow practice.
2. Close attention.
3. A little at a time.

These are also the conditions of improvement in the
quality of playing, and here, again, the attempt to
memorize is often the indispensable condition of im
provement.

RULES.

1. Observe first the division of the piece into periods
and phrases.
2. Learn the first phrase, the right hand part alone.
Read it twice by the notes, then immediately conceal the
notes by placing another sheet before them, and try
how much you can remember. Try twice to remember.
If you do not remember it do not try to stutter it out,
but return again to the notes. Observe now where you
lost the thread. Play the phrase slowly by the notes
twice. Conceal the notes as before and try how much
you can remember. Generally you will remember it all.
If not, repeat the process. Then take the left hand
part of the first phrase. Proceed with this as with the
other. When it is learned try both together. If any
thing has become indistinct, first try whether you can
think it out without referring to the notes. If not, refer
to them and play the phrase with both hands. You will
now have spent considerable time in learning only one
phrase, but then you have that.
3. Learn the second phrase in exactly the same way,
each hand singly at first, following all the steps already
recounted. When this is done, then play the two phrases
in succession. You now have four measures of your
piece.
4. Proceed in precisely the same way with the third
and fourth phrases. When each is learned, attach it to
the preceding by playing all in succession.
5. Learn the next period in the same way, phrase by
phrase, and each hand separately. And so on until the
whole piece is learned.
6. When you return to the piece the next day, first

* In various places above the direction is given to read
the passage twice by note before trying to play without notes.
The reason of this is that twice is as good as ten times. The first
two times you pay attention ; afterwards, less and less.

sit quietly and see whether you can think the music through
in your mind, just as clearly as it sounds when played.
If you can, you can play it, though but slowly if it is
difficult. If not, refer again to the notes for the point
where you lost the thread. Play the period twice through
with the notes, slowly ; then without them, and you will
find it easy.
This mode of study will doubtless seem tedious at first,
and after a considerable expenditure of time but a small
result will have been reached. Still, in fact, progress is
much more rapid in this way than by the usual method
of study. And all that is gained is acquired in a form to
be available and useful.

QUESTIONS.

Which generally sounds best, playing "by ear" or "by
note?" Can you refer to players among your acquaint
ances who illustrate this difference? What is the ideal
of study? To whom is the practice of memorizing recom
mended? Why to the talented? Why to others?
What are the three conditions of successful memori
zing? repeat the first rule. State how one should pro
ceed in order to learn the first phrase of a piece. How
the second? The third? The fourth? How do you
join together what you have thus learned? What is the
sixth rule? Why is it directed to read a phrase only
twice by note before trying to remember it? Why should
dull pupils memorize? Who is too dull to succeed at it?

HOW SOME STUDY MUSIC.

A PESSIMISTIC writer who signs himself Z. Q. in an
article on "Learning Music," in The Gems, makes the
following gloomy exposition on piano study: Among
the social curiosities of the day, the waste of time and
energy in the imaginary pursuit of musical proficiency
in the shape of piano-forte playing stands pre-eminent.
Students are taught to believe that quick two-handed
scale running, practice of exercises of the "Etude" and
Velocette" class, and a careful study of carefully selected
pieces will accomplish all that can be done to produce
good playing, and that any failure in the result can only
proceed from want of talent.
As regards piece learning, this is the usual state of
affairs. All notes with more than one or two leger lines
are submitted to a process of wandering, sometimes
leading to recognition, sometimes to mistaking. As to
playing treble notes with the left hand, or vice versa,
guessing riddles is a trifle to it.
Signatures containing more than four flats or sharps
are mostly looked upon as incomprehensible, the eyes
being incapable of recognizing the notes indicated by the
flats or sharps at the commencement of each line. As
a proof of this, if some one is asked what are the flats
or sharps belonging to any key containing more than
three or four, the eyes are at once turned to the key
board with a view to recall the notes of the scale (if it
be remembered), although a flat or sharp stands on the
place of each note to be so played.
Accidental sharps or flats, if noticed at all, are usually
applied without any particular reference to the lines or
spaces they may happen to indicate, although there is
no more doubt on this point than about the notes them
selves.
Recollecting to carry an accidental through a bar is
mostly looked upon as an impracticable mental effort.
Ideas about time are extremely vague. The grand
notion is to put the notes together as they are over each
other on the paper. If, by chance, the printing is a
little awry, or, as in older print, a note occupying an
entire bar is printed in the middle of the bar, the time
will most likely suffer by it.
Keeping one finger on a note while other fingers play
successive notes is altogether ignored. As the quick
scale-running is supposed to supply every piano-playing
quality, finger exercises go by as a childish, and the
power to feel one finger from another remains unde
veloped. Either the note that should be kept down is
given up, or every note kept down anyhow. In fact,
not much attention is bestowed on the true relation of
notes.
Fingering is scarcely glanced at. Few recognize the
fact that fingering is a special and necessary part of
what the finger has to learn to do by slow effort. If
fingering is disregarded a piece is sure to be wrong,
though the ear may perceive it.
The remedy for all these melancholy absurdities is to
devise rather the various powers indispensable to a real
reliable manner of study being perfected in an early day,
and the teacher's experience. A few minutes daily will
suffice for this. The reason why every valuable moral
quality and all customary care and caution should be
insisted on in learning the pieces is a puzzle to any intel
ligent observer.
Independently of pianistic, a proper study of piano
playing is a most useful intellectual exercise, and an
entrance into music-through which any who will make
the necessary effort may pass.

Teachers' Department.

PARENTS who have not had the advantage of learning
music themselves in their youth, are anxious to hear
their children play or sing, and the masters are obliged
to satisfy their impatient expectation. Knowing per
fectly well what they will be judged only by the amount
brilliant results they obtain, they find it useless and
dangerous to struggle against the current. As sufficient
time is not allowed to teach the pupils to read music
fluently, to develop their ear and rhythmical feeling, in
short, to give them a complete musical education, they
are obliged to devote all their energy to the teaching of
as many brilliant pieces or fashionable songs as they can.
Being unable to do wonders, they produce sham miracles.
—B. LUDERS.

When teaching children, adapt yourself to children's
minds and characters. Do not measure a child's capacity
by your own, nor use such language with a little one as
you would use with one advanced in years. Many
teachers are capable of doing good work with advanced
or with grown pupils, but they utterly fail when attempt
ing to instruct children. To teach children well is a
great art.

How much should I know before I can teach? said a
young man. Whatever you know thoroughly, you may
teach it, if ever so little. No one has a right to criticise
you for teaching so little, but you deserve severe criticism
for attempting to teach that with which you are not
thoroughly familiar.

The object is not to play a certain piece of music that
it may be heard, but that it may be felt and understood
—that it may impress. Nothing is gained if I play all
the prescribed notes, unless I feel and know how the com
poser conceived them, unless I render them according to
that perception. This is the task of the intellectual.
Perception of the artistic purpose, as applied to executive
proficiency, is called "style" and "expression."
No one who has any idea of the complexity of emo
tion and impressions that stir the spirit of the composer
and guide his pen, no one who can conceive the impossi
bility of expressing in writing all the inarticulate accents,
the half-disclosed secrets, the twilight of soul, that strive
for utterance in music,—will doubt for a moment the
irremissible necessity of leading every disciple of art
towards a clear perception of the spiritual purport in
music, and to the intelligent rendering of this purport
in performance. The verbal language is not even ful
filled in the alphabet; and of how little moment are the
inflections of accent, gravness and acuteness in lan
guage, in comparison to what they are in music, where
all those resources contribute to pitch, besides rhythm, dura
tion, pitch, and resonance, and where all these have an
essential significance.
And now for the indwelling purport of words or music,
which is, after all, the all-important feature : how often
do we fail to understand each other in our native tongue?
how few seize the sense of what is undefined or profound?
How often must commentators and expounders make clear
what has been written? What has not been written to
explain Shakespeare? and has not our own Goethe been
set forth to his countrymen by their own smaller mediators ? and
have these yet come to the end of their task? although
we have known and practiced his language from our
infancy, as it were in our own family. How can it then be
otherwise with the fugitive and mystic language of
music, that is, made known only in stillness, and in the
whole life, resounds only in rare and single moments,
and to speak which, we must penetrate and identify our
selves with it ?
If the teachers who are constantly struggling to keep
soul and body together would only gather the few pupils
they have and organize a weekly class, at which pupils
and teachers would take part, the whole world would be
brighter. Then there are harmony classes, pupils con
certs, history lectures, recitals which, if the teacher
would only undertake and confine to his own pupils, he
would soon have plenty to do and be happier and more
useful man to society.
THE ETUDE. 91

EXAMINATION QUESTIONS.

In what key is the following? How do you know?

[Short musical excerpt in treble clef; single-line melody beginning on D, with accidentals and phrasing marks. (Detailed description of non-textual images appears below.)]

Write triads or common chords on each note of the scale of C, and say which are major, which minor, which imperfect:—

[Musical staff showing scale of C with space below for triads/chords.]

Convert these chromatic intervals into diatonic intervals, and say to what key they may then belong:—

[Series of short musical examples in treble clef showing chromatic intervals.]

Name the following intervals:—

[Staff with a number of interval examples.]

Transpose the following into B minor:—

[Melodic excerpt in treble clef.]

Add Alto and Tenor parts, in accordance with the figuring, to the following:—

[Four-stave excerpt (Soprano and Bass given; blank Alto and Tenor staves with figured bass indications).]

Divide the following by bar-lines into measures of the value of 3.

[Long beamed passage of notes across a staff (unmeasured), to be divided into measures.]

Write the following at the same pitch on the Treble staff:—

[Short passage in bass clef to be copied to treble clef at same sounding pitch.]

Alter the following into a correct Major scale, and when you have done this mark the position of the semitones:—

[Short scale-like passage.]

Harmonize the following Bass, in accordance with the figuring:—

[Bass clef staff with bass-line and figured bass numerals beneath; short harmonization exercise.]

CORRESPONDENCE.

AMERICAN VERSUS FOREIGN FINGERING.

J. ALLEINE BROWN, INDEPENDENCE, TEXAS.
It is the habit of American thought to regard the thumb as a distinctive sign and instrument. For this reason the American system of fingering differs from the foreign; the distinctive sign upon American students. Foreign fingering requires the beginner to discover the necessary changes of the fingers, and when the habit of the thumb becomes fixed more firmly by practice, it is difficult to do so.

It is impossible, however, to make the American method universal, and the only alternative, if we would do away with all awkwardness, is to adopt the foreign plan. I would help matters very much by simplification, if the trans-Atlantic publishers would be induced to use a larger and more distinct figure for the thumb. This, I think, is all there is in the discussion.

E. VON A.
As Americans we should favor the American. All the public schools teach it, and the pupil is familiar with it before he takes lessons. It is the same for the violin and the violoncello. The most important factor for fingerings is the pupil, and the American sign (the small figure for thumb) is the most practical and quickest to use.

[Paragraph continues with discussion of benefits and drawbacks of American vs. foreign fingering, mentioning influence of thumb, necessity of studying sol-fa, and the roles of German and Italian methods; text too small in places for perfect transcription at this resolution.]

beneficial,—first to his brain, next to his intellect (as he can preserve works published in foreign fingering as easily as those printed in that of his own country). He has to learn several clefs; he has to study and understand musical terms in three foreign tongues,—Italian, French, and German,—all of which knowledge is indispensable, and yet ten times more difficult than to learn that X, 1, 2, 3, and 4 is identical with 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. And in the German method the position and the figure of the thumb are clearer than in the American.

F. R. WEBB, VIRGINIA FEMALE INSTITUTE, STAUNTON, VA.
As a matter of intrinsic merit, little to choose between the two methods of fingering, with perhaps the advantage as to German editions for the foreigner. The real difference lies in the manner of teaching and the scholarship of the teacher. The American plan is as useful and as convenient as any; but for the studious pupil who will master notation, the foreign system has its advantages.

[JOS. RAFF, OWEGO, N. Y.]
I am very glad that the question of a universal system of fingering for piano music has recently been opened by Mr. L. Meyer of Philadelphia, Pa. I fully endorse his views in this matter and prefer foreign fingering.

It is the fingering of our great masters of the old and new school. Our best American composers and teachers, such as Messrs. Mason, Miller, Sherwood, and a host of others, use it; I see no reason for any teacher to alter his fingering, and such alterations disfigure the music and often trouble the pupils in reading. Foreign fingering also would be of some advantage for our best American composers, and their works would find their way more readily into other countries. I personally use both fingerings and do not make these remarks on account of being a foreigner (German), but simply out of respect for the art, its great masters, and those who study their works.

R. DEROODE, LEXINGTON, KY.
With new pupils I adopt foreign fingering. With intelligent advanced pupils, accustomed to American fingering, I use both.

Use the American fingering with the average pupils who are accustomed to it.

I think that any thorough teacher ought to be perfectly familiar with both kinds of fingering, as well as with every system of notation, the standard, the Tonic Sol-Fa, the Italian or French Do-Re-Mi (unchangeable) and the numerical system.

Whenever I see a man advocating any one system, excepting the regular standard, I generally rate him as a crank.

H. H. JOHNSON, SIDNEY, O.
I most heartily endorse the project mentioned in the article entitled "Music Teachers' National Association." It is just what I have long been hoping to see promulgated in every musical journal. I have had practical experience sufficient to convince me that the teaching of music in all of our common schools can be made a decided success, as lasting and permanent as any other branch of education, if it can only be made to become a national institution, and I know of no better plan than for the Music Teachers' National Association to take hold of the work, something like the plan suggested in said article.

By all means possible, let us all push this matter to a successful point. I believe it can yet be done.

Questions and Answers.

(Questions pertaining to the study of the Piano-forte will receive at
tention, and answers to them be published as space will permit. The writer's
name must accompany each question for the sake of identification.)

QUES. 1.—In Beethoven's Sonata, Op. 27, No. 1, Allegro Molto e Vivace, why does not the principal accent fall on the first beat of each measure, as is indicated, instead on the second, fourth, etc., measures? Also is the note below some arrangement? [Text here partly obscured.]

ANS. The question resolves itself into this: Why does not Beethoven use 6-4 time instead of 3-4 in the movement referred to? Beethoven in all his sonatas never uses 6-4 time, probably for the following reasons: That 3-4 time will answer for every 6-4 movement, but not vice versa. In numerous instances in this sonata one part of movement will be in 6-4 and the rest in 3-4 as above. The Allegro ... [text continues; finer details of the musical analysis follow, discussing accents, phrase structure, and examples from other Beethoven works.]

QUES. 2.—In Beethoven's Sonata, Op. 27, No. 2, what is the meaning of "Scherzo"? [Answer discusses scherzo as "joke" or "jest," gives examples and explanation.]

[The remainder of the Questions and Answers column contains several short questions about specific passages in piano repertoire (Beethoven, Chopin, etc.) and detailed textual answers and musical references. Some small print in this area is difficult to read distinctly at the resolution provided.]

Description of non-textual images (detailed):

- Across the top half of the left column and into the center column are multiple musical-staff examples used for examination questions. These include treble and bass clefs, short melodic phrases, chromatic interval examples, interval-identification examples, a short melody to be transposed into B minor, a four-stave system showing Soprano and Bass with Alto and Tenor to be added (and figured bass numbers), a long unbarred beamed passage to be divided into measures (intended to teach bar-line placement), a bass-clef passage to be copied to treble clef at the same sounding pitch, a fragment to be corrected into a proper major scale with semitone positions marked, and a bass-line with figured bass numerals to be harmonized.

- The musical examples vary in length from two to several measures and include accidentals, beams, rests, and occasional phrase markings. One example shows a sequence of chromatically adjacent notes intended to be converted into diatonic intervals. The harmonization example shows bass notes with figures beneath (numbers such as 6, 5, 4 3, etc.) indicating required chordal realizations.

If you would like, I can produce a higher-fidelity transcription of every single line of small-print text and every numeral from the musical figures if you can provide a higher-resolution crop of the lower-left and lower-right columns; some of the smallest text is not fully legible at the current resolution.
92                                 THE ETUDE.

4. What is the cost of a metronome?
Ans. From six dollars (without bell) to ten dollars with bell.

5. What is Beethoven's last and best piece? — E. L.
Ans. We believe that the quartette in F Major, dedicated to Mr. Johan Wolfmayer was the last complete composition Beethoven wrote.

Ques. — Please answer the following questions through THE ETUDE:

1. What kind of a fourth is it from A flat to D sharp.
Ans. There is no chord in harmony that contains this interval; hence no account is taken of it; likewise Augmented Thirds, Diminished Sixths, Diminished Seconds, Augmented Sevenths, which never appear in chord formations.

2. Are the following chords named the same, and which one gives the correct notation, and what is the name of the chord. — W. E. M.

[There is a small engraved musical example showing two harmonic formations labeled a and b (a single staff with notes forming the chords in question).]

Ans. The one at b is the correct one, and is found in C Minor, on the fourth degree of the scale called the Augmented (German Sixth) Chord of the Sixth and Fifth. Some writers reckon it as a Chord of the Ninth on the second degree, Minor, without fundamental. The D sharp in example a forms with A flat an interval (fourth) that, as we said, is not found in chord formations. In this case D sharp could be used, with the F sharp, as a passing note.

Ques. — Will you please give the metronome marks for Th. Kullak's Op. 62 and Op. 81? — M. C. R.

Ans. Many of "Scenes from Childhood" and capable of various interpretations. The following tempos will be found approximately correct:

Op. 62.
No. 1. M. M. dotted quarter note = 80.
No. 2. M. M. quarter note = 84.
No. 3. M. M. quarter note = 96.
No. 4. M. M. dotted quarter note = 100.
No. 5. M. M. dotted quarter note = 84.
No. 6. M. M. dotted half note = 69.
No. 7. M. M. dotted quarter note = 84.
No. 8. M. M. quarter note = 96.
No. 9. M. M. quarter note = 126.
No. 10. M. M. quarter note = 126.
No. 11. M. M. dotted quarter note = 76.
No. 12. M. M. eighth note = 100.

Op. 81.
No. 1. M. M. quarter note = 61.
No. 2. M. M. quarter note = 104.
No. 3. M. M. quarter note = 84.
No. 4. M. M. quarter note = 92.
No. 5. M. M. quarter note = 108.
No. 6. M. M. quarter note = 96.
No. 7. M. M. quarter note = 84.
No. 8. M. M. quarter note = 132.
No. 9. M. M. quarter note = 132.
No. 10. M. M. quarter note = 84.
No. 11. M. M. quarter note = 104.
No. 12. M. M. quarter note = 96.

Ques. — I would like to ask some questions to be answered through THE ETUDE. — W. A. P.

1. What is the meaning of "Dolente"?
Ans. Dolente is an Italian word meaning mournful, sorrowful. Our English word doleful has the same meaning.

2. Ought the damper pedal be used in Mendelssohn's forty-seventh "Song Without Words"; if so, how?
Ans. In most editions no directions are given for the use of the pedal in this "Song Without Words," and in the dispersion of this part of the work, but the judicious use of it gives the composition a softer, sweeter, and more poetical tone. The only necessary discretion is to change with every harmony.

3. What is meant by a dash (—) in figuring? thus,
6 — 7 — 3 4 5 6 7 — 6 ?
Ans. The dash (—) after a figure in thorough-bass is an abbreviation, and stands for the figure that precedes it. Thus, when you see a figure with a dash you know the same intervals are to be retained as are set down in the preceding figure. If you had figured 6 4 3 4 5 6 7 the dash after the 7 would indicate that the 6 was to be repeated, etc.

4. What is meant by people's or folk's songs?
Ans. Songs that have become national, but not always patriotic, like our "Home Sweet Home," "Yankee Doodle," etc. We have very few "folk songs," but with older nations hundreds of these songs float along with the life of the people and beautifully do they portray the character and life of the people; as the dearest associations bind the songs to a people; for they contain the essence of life's joys and sorrows. Our negro melodies are good illustrations of "folk songs."

Ques. — Will you please tell me, through THE ETUDE why Löschhorn's Klavier-technic is not spoken of and used more extensively. It is certainly an excellent work. I have never found anything which strengthens the fingers as much. While, of course, I do not presume to criticize Plaidy, still I think the Klavier-technic superior at least in regard to giving strength to the fingers. Then the exercises for the wrist and especially those for the passing under of the thumb are the best I have ever seen. I have used it a great deal in my teaching and never fails to develop the hands wonderfully.
Do you think it possible to obtain the great amount of strength and independence by practicing exercises similar to most of Plaidy's (excluding scales) that can be gained by the practice of exercises which contain "holding down notes?" — E. B.

Ans. Löschhorn's "Technical Studies" (Peter's Edition) we have used in teaching and have on several occasions mentioned them favorably. We know of no reason why they should not be used generally, except it may be that they are not known sufficiently. If we were obliged to use either Plaidy or Löschhorn's, we would choose the latter.

Herr Zwillingsher, who is the follower of Plaidy in the Conservatory at Leipzig, used this latter Plaidy and not the former; in holding down notes to gain technique, and regretted ever putting in the page of such exercises the work now contains. This is a piece of information not generally known. Plaidy and Zwilingsher notwithstanding we believe in "holding down notes" exercises, and here we are of the opinion that Form finds an important part of playing as much as does tone, arpeggios, etc. Skill in the former is necessary in every approach into passages of the kind and more especially in the playing of one part with the thumb and in giving out these kinds of tone that are especially necessary for the piano. The fingers actually needed. Third. A more perfect legato is possible by practicing those exercises of the kind, because the fingers are drawn toward the keys as if by an elastic band. Fourth. The use of the hands for this is an artistic matter. Fifth and last. Nothing will produce a more effective result in striking double notes than this exercise. Most amateurs in playing double notes strike one note a little before the other. Kullak's "holding down note" exercises for even the simpler ones of Plaidy will soon break up this bad habit. Many attach too much importance to the delicate little systems of playing on this principle like Eggeling in his "Anweisung und Studien nach Seb. Bach's Methode."

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

THE CHILD'S PIANO-FORTE BOOK. By H. KEATLEY MOORE, B. Mus. W. Swan Sonnenschein & Co., London, England.

This book is designed for the very youngest pupils, and we have here a series of easy and attractive pieces written especially for beginners. The "finger exercise" character of a portion of the work is balanced by pleasing themes, thus making the book more acceptable to children than a mere technical manual would be. There are several short and pretty little pieces which will be useful to the teacher and pleasant to the pupil. The notation is clear and the fingerings judicious, so that the work is well adapted to the object in view. Price, cloth.

[Middle column continues with notices and brief reviews of new music and songs.]

"not earn their wages." "But, sir," said the drummer, "I'm resting!" "Resting! I tell you I'll have no resting," roared the angry manager. "How dare you rest, sir; play up directly, or leave my service." We know better than the theatre manager, and we know the poor drummer was quite right to count his rests and remain silent when his music told him not to play.

Mothers who have their children to instruct, or teachers who have very young pupils under their charge, will find the book a great help. All teachers could gain ideas from it. Aside from the simple manner in which everything is expressed, the author shows he is master of a wider scope of music. The book is now in its second edition, which, for the short time it is out, indicates that it has met with popular favor.

Dr. Frederic Louis Ritter, the well known composer and historian of Vassar College, has just published a lively setting of Shelley's celebrated "Indian Serenade." "The Artist From Dreams" — The words of this beautiful song are simply luscious, and almost sing themselves, and with Dr. Ritter's characteristic musicality its merit is doubly enhanced. It is a thoroughly composed song, in the key of F sharp major, the sentiments being not overdrawn. The composer has infused into the composition that warm color which the text calls for, and the significance and simple beauty of a song like this, at a time when the market is absolutely flooded with maudlin trash, makes it all the more noticeable.

1. "Fresh Flowers," song book for infant classes, by Anna Fitt.
2. "Songs and Games for our Little Ones," by Jane Miley and M. A. Talburt.
3. "Menuet from Sonata, No. 1," Adam Geibel.
4. "Ariel," allegretto grazioso for piano, by Louis Meyer.
5. "Florida's Wedding," reverie, by Louis Meyer.
6. "My Faith Looks up to Thee," sacred song for soprano or tenor, by Louis Meyer.
7. "Anemone" (a zephyr floweret), rondo for piano, by Edgar A. Sherwood.
8. "Flight of the Starlings," mazurka caprice, by Edgar H. Sherwood.

Numbers 1 and 2. Two interesting books for little ones, full of good things both as regards text and music.

3. This is a very clever number from the well-known talented blind composer Adam Geibel. It reminds one somewhat of Mozart in its general build, but is original and worthy of study.

4. This number by Louis Meyer is simple and dainty. — A very pleasing little piece.

5. "Florida's Wedding" is effective and pretty, and will probably prove satisfactory in recitals and at home.

6. "My Faith Looks up to Thee" — very touching and properly treated.

7. "Anemone," a sprightly little rondo; bright and original, not without merit.

8. This is clever and original and will commend itself to those who desire something piquant and not trivial. Mr. Sherwood is an enterprising composer and has written several successful songs and piano pieces.

[End of middle column reviews.]

MUSIC TEACHERS' NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.

Editor of The Etude.

Dear Sir. — Allow me through the columns of your admirable paper to call once more the attention of the musical fraternity of the whole country to the approaching annual meeting of the Music Teachers' National Association in New York City, May the 1st of July all teachers of music are practically free from professional cares, if for no other reason than because their patrons desire a vacation. This is the music teachers' opportunity. Before he flies this term he is to be within the reach of the modern musician his pilgrimage to antiquities of the old world in quest of health, strength, or pleasure, or finds there his summer "normal" for the coming year's work. Please otherwise, if no one is likely to follow up the advantages of the gathering of the Music Teachers' National Association will amply repay the expenditure of time and money.

No teacher can give diligent and conscientious instruction for nine or ten months of the year without at least a short period of rest. The long vacation of the summer months of the year is the only period in which the mind and the body can freely exercise the recuperative influences which are so necessary to the health of both. The Music Teachers' National Association offers the teacher not only a social and musical gathering, but also a series of educational sessions and recitals, which, if attended by a large number of teachers, will exert a potent influence upon musical instruction throughout the country. The meeting in New York City will be especially valuable this year, both on account of the many advantages afforded by the metropolis and the opportunity it gives the teacher to meet professional contemporaries and partake of the city's musical resources. We shall look with pleasure for anything from you on this point.

[The remainder of the right-hand column contains further commentary urging attendance, some logistical notes and closing remarks; the text is dense and continuous to the bottom of the page.]

Description of non-textual images on the page:
- At top center under Question 2 there is a small engraved musical example occupying a short horizontal space: a single treble staff (and possibly a lower staff) showing two chordal examples labeled "a" and "b" respectively. The engraving shows the notes forming the disputed chords; the image is black-and-white line engraving typical of 19th-century music examples. No people or identifiable faces are present.

- The page header includes a decorative masthead with the number "92" at the top left and the title "THE ETUDE." centered across the top. The header and dividing rules are ornamental, printed in black. There are no other pictorial illustrations on the page beyond the small musical notation example described above.
THE ETUDE. 93

matter how successful a teacher, no matter how confident that his system is the only real, genuine, and artistic one, still it is more than probable that he will modify it in a greater or less degree when he learns the experience of others, and even if he has really the advantage over all others, he has more to gain than to lose in imparting to others his ideas and the results of his experience. It is well to remember Schumann's maxim, "Behind the mountains there live people too." To the ambitious, but inexperienced, teacher the advantage of association with great artists and valuable hints from them is too manifest to need any argument. Even the remarkable group of concerts and recitals is alone worth many times the cost of membership.

The complete programme of essays, recitals, and concerts will be soon ready for announcement. Meanwhile the following general plan of the meeting has been decided upon by the programme committee.

The Academy of Music has been engaged for the use of the Association for the 1st, 2d, and 3d of July. Sessions each day at 9 A. M. and 2 P. M., with a limited number of essays at each, on subjects of practical interest, each essay to be subject to free and frank discussion by the members of the Association, and each session closing with a short recital of piano and vocal or violin music. The programme committee has already received encouragement of essays from the following gentlemen: Mr. William Mason, Mr. George F. Bristow, Mr. J. H. Cornell, Mr. C. L. Capen, Mr. H. E. Krehbiel, and the Hon. John Eaton, of the Washington Bureau of Education, and other essayists are still to be heard from; also of piano recitals from Mr. S. B. Mills, Mr. Carlyle Petersilea, Mr. Emil Liebling, Mr. Carl Faelten, and Miss Fannie Bloomfield; also of an organ recital from Mr. S. P. Warren. There will also be a general concert devoted exclusively to American works in the various classes of composition. At this concert a large chorus and an orchestra of about sixty men will participate. All music teachers, all lovers of music, and all who desire to see American Musical Art, creative and executive, established on a firm and independent basis may be sure of a cordial welcome from the resident profession and art amateurs of New York.

S. N. PENFIELD,
President M. T. N. A.

CLIMAXES.

"A WHAT amuses me most at the opera," said an Arab chief, who had been taken to hear "Faust," "is one of the musicians in the orchestra, seated a little higher than the rest, who performed on an invisible instrument with a stick." — Musical Courier.

"I know a bank wherein the wild thyme grows," is a quotation familiar to every singer; and it should have been frequently used this season, for certainly there has been no lack of banks with wild thyme in the country. "A pair of old shoes" — (note: some words in this paragraph unclear in source).

YE OLDEN TYMES. — In former times, when the possession of a hymn book was within the reach of only the wealthy, it was customary that the minister, after giving out the hymn, also read every stanza line after line so that those gifted with memory could sing the text. A clergyman of the Scotch kirk one hundred and fifty years ago was announced at the evening service in the doxology to be sung. The little church was poorly supplied with candles and the minister was early trying to read from his hymnal, addressed the audience with these words:
"The light is dim, my eyes are dim,
I cannot see to read the hymn."
Immediately the worshipers believing to learn the new text, rose and sang the words to the tune of "Old Hundred."
With a glance of consternation the good minister continued to address his audience:
"I didn't mean you to sing this hymn,
I only said my eyes were dim."
This second verse was faithfully repeated by the congregation like the first.
Exasperated by the "intelligence" of his flock, the representative of the church militant vehemently struck his hand upon the pulpit and cried:
"I wish the Devil take you all!
This is no hymn to sing at all."
History fails to record whether this last stanza was also sung.

Dr. von Bulow intends to go to England shortly. The English may sing:
"Mein Worth ist nicht hier Hulow."
An unsuccessful vocalist went to the workhouse and delighted the inmates with his singing. He said it was a natural thing for him to do, as he had been singing to poor houses ever since he began his career. — Ex.
A young lady, who recently asked if she was a singer, replied that she only sang for her own amusement. — Ex.

"If they tell me my wife plays superbly," "So does mine," "How so? I never hear her," "The day after we were married, she shut the piano and hasn't opened it since." — Ex. (A pause). How she must love it! — Ex.

HOW THEY PLAY THE PIANO IN NEW ORLEANS. —
"I was looking around the streets last night," said Jim Nelson, one of the old locomotive engineers running into New Orleans, "as I had nothing to do I dropped into a concert, and heard a sick-looking Frenchman playing a piano in a way that made me feel all over in spots. As soon as he sat down on the stool I knew by the way he handled himself that he understood the machine he was playing. He got up two or three times, and got down on his knees and looked round the box to see if he had water enough. Then he looked up as if he wanted to know how much steam he was carrying, and the next moment he pulled open the throttle, and sailed on to the same time as if he had a fireman's hot water jug. If you could hear him thunder over cutlers and bridges, and getting faster and faster, until the fellow rocked about in his seat like a cradle, you would be frightened to death. Finally a passenger got out of the way of a 'special.' The fellow worked his keys on the middle division like lightning, and then he fell like the bottom end of a dining-car wheel into the works and then came the scream of the whistles. He reached up and caught the fireman by the hair and slapped his hand on the man's face, and said, 'Now, look out, or you'll run over the switch.' He kept it up until he had the audience going like a locomotive; then he dashed on his way and his applause was the noise of a ten-wheel on a wet rail. He then 'stewed' his music at the end of his piece and looked like he wanted to get out of the house. His wife, who had sat in a back seat with a baby in her arms, cried all through his grand finale and fell asleep when he played the coda. He made me think of a fellow who had spent his life on the rails. He never missed a freight. He was used to the old-time pounding. You hear 'em play now as if they had been graduated from the engineering school. They take a cab drive to the piano and then they know how to handle a keyboard." — New Orleans Picayune.

HOW THEY TEACH THE PIANO IN NEW ORLEANS. — "One of our old teachers here," said a gentleman, "who had made thousands of dollars by teaching the piano, was called to account the other day for having slapped a girl. 'Why did you strike that pupil of mine?' asked her father. 'Because,' said the teacher, 'she played "Home, Sweet Home" with a cadenza and then altered the melody in a place where she oughtn't to.' 'But she was right according to the book,' replied the parent. 'Of course she was right,' said the teacher; 'but I don't care about the book. I want her to play clean, and when she plays that airs and graces I lay it on.' 'Very well,' said the father, 'you can slap her if you think it proper; only don't do it so hard in future.' The teacher has had to go before the judge for her performances, and her pupils have been taken from her. But she says she won't stop until she dies. — Exchange.

CONCERT PROGRAMMES.

Fred C. Hall, pianist, Richmond, Va.
1. Sixth Hungarian Rhapsody, Liszt; 2. Menuet on Valse, Saint-Saens; 3. Mazurka, in F Sharp Minor, Fred C. Hall; 4. Valse Caprice, Rubinstein; 5. Menuet, Op. 17, No. 2, Moszkowski; 6. Elfentanz, Schubert-Liszt; 7. Mazurka, Op. 33, No. 4; 8. Mazurka, Op. 33, No. 4; 9. Prelude, Op. 28, No. 15, 10. Tarantelle, Liszt; 11. Nocturne, Op. 15, No. 2, Chopin; 12. Tannhauser Overture, Wagner-Liszt.

H. R. Remsen, Director, East Saginaw, Mich.
1. Chorus: Lift Up Your Heads, Handel; 2. Male Quartet: March, Becker; 3. Aria With Verdure Claad, Hayden; 4. Part Songs: O Fly With Me, The Rose Fete; Bell, Over the Glen, Mendelssohn; 5. Piano Solo, E. Rhapsodie Hongroise, No. 2, Liszt; 6. Trio, The Morning's Reception; 7. Solo, The Brown Thrush, D. Buck; 8. Ladies' Chorus, The Twenty-Third Psalm, Schubert; 9. Violin and Piano Duet, Hungarian Variations and Rondo, B. Molique; 10. Chorus, O Italia, Belloved, Donizetti; 11. Male Quartet, Mozell, Vogal; 12. Chorus, Good-Night, Beloved, Pinaul.

"Improved Silex Musicians" (given by young pupils), Mrs. F. W. E. Dorsey, Teacher, Frederick, Md.
1. March and Waltz, S. L. Hallowitz; 2. Toyliss, Melody, King; 3. Blue Danube Waltzes; 4. Strauss; 5. May Bells (song), Scribe; 6. La Serenade, Schubert; 7. Perle d'Allemagne, Aschenbach; 8. Shepherd Boy, Webster; 9. B. Lengs Grand Marche, Geibel; 10. Flower Song, Lange; 11. When the Tide Comes In, M. Mondy; 12. An Exliras, Berger; 13. Mendelssohn (duet), Laskisky; 14. Rosenlied; 15. From Nuncio, 1. (illegible) "Queen of the Waves"; 16. Chant du Berger; 17. The Princess and the Pea; 18. Nocturne, Op. 9; 19. Beautiful Eyes, Ranch; 20. Selections: H. (illegible); 21. La Gondola; 22. Nocturne Sicilienne; 23. Leaves of Vallon.

Miss Emma L. James, Teacher, Athens, Ga.
1. Overture to Tannhauser, Richard Wagner; 2. Vocal Solo, Giovanni, Alw; 3. Vocal Solo, The Night, Von G, etc. (several items, some words illegible in scan).

Wesleyan Female College, Macon, Ga. J. H. Newman, Musical Director.
1. Vocal Solo, Wreck of the Hesperus, Hutton; 2. Piano Quartet, Concordia, Ascher; 3. Vocal Quartette, Friendship, Love, and Song, Thompson; 4. Vocal Trio, Orpheus with his Lute, Sullivan; 5. Piano Solo, Chromatique, Gallo, Liszt; 6. Vocal Solo, Love's Dream; 7. Piano Duo, Nune, Welles; 8. Piano Solo, Bright, Musicalan, etc. (several items follow, some illegible).

Milwaukee, Wis., School of Music. J. C. Fillmore, Director.
1. La Jungfrau, Idylle, Leopold Rassini; 2. Valse, H. Goad; 3. Trovatore, Fantasy for Violin and Piano, H. Leen; 4. Edline de S. Spielman? (illegible); 5. Gavotte In E (Joseph S. Bach).

Mrs. Nellie E. C. Osgood, pianist, Montpelier, Vt.
1. Piano, "Nocturne" in F, Schumann; 2. Polonaise, Chopin; 3. Nocturne, C major, Sch; 4. Selection, Concert (illegible); 5. Piano, "La Mer," M. (illegible).

Miss Gordon's School, Philadelphia, Pa., by W. H. G., Director.
1. Gavotte Celeste, G minor; Bach; 2. Fugue, Op. 5, No. 3, G minor; Reinberger?; 3. Selection from the Kreutzer? Op. 16; 4. (several items illegible near bottom of column).

Note: Several program details in the right column are partially illegible in the reproduction; small type and some smudging make exact words uncertain for a few selections.

Description of non-textual images and page appearance:
- The page is a full printed magazine page with three columns of text under a centered decorative title "THE ETUDE." The page number "93" appears in the upper right.
- There are thin rules (lines) separating the header from the columns and between some sections. No photographic images are present; the only graphics are typographic decorations: the magazine title in a bold decorative serif type, an ornamental dot or short rule beneath it, and section title headings set in small caps or bold type.
- The scan shows paper texture, light smudging, and some darker border shading around the edges; minor ink irregularities and some faint spots obscure a few letters in places, particularly in the lower portions of the right-hand column, which causes several individual words to be partially illegible.
94

THE ETUDE.

NEWS OF THE MONTH.

Mme. Essipoff is ill with rheumatism, and obliged to quit work for a time.

The first school of singing for women was founded 1690, at Venice, by Antonio Lotti.

Dr. Damrosch will be succeeded by his son, Walter Damrosch, in the conductorship of the German Opera Company bearing his name.

M. Calixa Lavallée is giving in Boston a series of concerts the programmes of which are exclusively made up of works by American and resident composers.

Among Volkmann's papers have been found a sonata for piano and violin, two concert overtures, a number of smaller piano pieces and songs. These will soon be published.

The claim is made for Ludwigsburg, Germany, of having produced for the cathedral at Riga, Russia, the largest organ ever constructed. It has 124 stops and 7,000 pipes. The organ is sixty-five feet high, the largest pipe thirty-two feet long and the smallest half an inch.

Foreign journals speak of an invention produced in Germany, viz., a musical bell, so constructed, that by means of a concealed spring the mechanism that strikes the bell can slowly and gradually be set in motion, instead of giving the blow suddenly, as all bells have been struck heretofore. It is also said that by this means a kind of vocal music is produced.

Dr. Carter Moffat's Ammoniaphone is attracting almost as much attention and finding as many dupes as did Pekin's metallic tractors about three-quarters of a century ago. It finds among the high class men with firm believers, and fair ladies are everlasting sucking at the tubes which are to convert their thin voices into the rivals of Jenny Lind or Patti. If the inhalation of free ammonia and peroxide of hydrogen is so good for the voice, it seems scarcely necessary to inoculate the singers; add in an expensive little flute-like case to the mouthpiece, and the fact of doing so and causing the vapor they give off to reach every throat, will be no less wonderful, and we imagine, and few in America to pay hard cash for such doubtful gas.

Ravina, the veteran pianist and composer, who founded a school of his own, is still enjoying the best of health and spirits. His soirées musicales are amongst the most conspicuous musical reunions in Paris.

Natalie Janotha, the pupil of Clara Schumann, recently played with much success in Berlin, embracing among her other selections some pleasing waltzes of her own composition and the "Kreutzer Sonata" that she performed with Joseph Joachim.

Minnie Hauk has bought a chateau near Basle, Switzerland.

At a recent concert in Paris, says a dispatch, "the first part of the programme, which consisted only of French pieces, was loudly interrupted by the selection from Wagner."

Franz Abt, the song writer, is dead. He was born in Eilenberg, Germany, in 1819, and spent the last part of his life in Braunschweig. He has composed over four hundred songs.

PRIZE COMPETITION.

FOR PIANO-FORTE INSTRUCTOR.

The publisher of THE ETUDE will award a prize of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS for a Primary Text-Book for the Piano-Forte.

All competitors must send their fictitious name and address to this office by July 1st, 1885. No manuscript will be recognized unless this registration has been made. A sealed envelope should accompany the manuscript bearing the same fictitious name and address, on the outside, as registered, with the real name and address of the author on the inside. Should correspondence be necessary before the decision is made, it will be conducted under the fictitious name.

The time for closing competition and the names of the judges will be announced in the July (1885) issue of The Etude. The work will be published free of expense to the author immediately after a decision shall have been reached by the judges. A royalty of ten cents per copy will be paid to the author after the first edition has been exhausted. The competition, on account of copyright, will only be open to American citizens. The judges will reserve the right to reject all manuscripts. Manuscript should be written with foreign mode of fingering.

"Vocal music," said L'Abbate Gavina, an eminent Italian critic, more than a hundred years ago, "ought to imitate the natural language of the human feelings and passions, rather than the warbling of canary birds, which our singers nowadays affect so vastly to imitate with their quaverings and bombastic cadences."

Neither water nor art can raise higher than its source. If the artist is mechanical his works will be mechanical; also, if he is simply imitative he remains only a copyist.

Rubens could by one stroke of his brush convert a laughing into a weeping child; and we can color emotion with qualities of voice so that the metamorphosis is not less sudden or more complete.

Mozart's piano-forte had five octaves, F to F, and Clementi's had no more till about 1793, when five and a half octaves were gained by going up to the next C. In 1796 appeared the first piano with six octaves, from C to C; it was the invention, or at least the patent, of which was given by Messrs. Broadwood, the great London house, to Beethoven in 1817, the one he used for the rest of his life. The general introduction of a six octave compass, with the higher from C to C or F to F, was not until 1811, when the six and a half octave compass was first introduced. The gradual extension to seven octaves by G, and then A upwards, and to the lowest A downwards, was not everywhere completed until 1831.

A complete cure of the writer's cramp is announced to have been put into operation by a German, Herr Julius Wolff. The system is described as a peculiar combination of massage and gymnastics, and the practice consists of rubbing, kneading, stretching, and beating of the fingers and the muscles of the arm and hand. There are active and passive gymnastic exercises intended to gradually restore and increase the power and suppleness of the hand; and graduated exercises in writing the usual music signs and marks are also used.

During Chopin's first visit to Paris he was frequently invited to play in the drawing rooms of families where he was to be enjoyed as a domestic pianist. On one occasion he was made to play before the guests at a soiree, and after playing the quadrille was asked to give his opinion of the dancers. "Tolerable," said he, "but the music is wrong." "What would you have," asked the hostess, "have been done differently?" "I should have taught them the right rhythm and given them more animation," was the reply. (Note: small passage here is condensed from original; the visible text comments on Chopin's home performances and opinions.)

A RARE BARGAIN.

I offer for sale the following musical works:

1. Albertsberger's "Thorough Bass, Harmony, and Composition."

2. "How to Understand Music," Mathews.

3. Richter's "Harmony," translated by J. C. D. Parker.

4. "The Lyrical Drama," two vols., H. S. Edwards.

5. "Music in America," Ritter.

6. "Music and Some Highly Musical People," Trotter.

7. "National Music of the World," Chorley.

8. "Curiosities of Music," Elson.

9. "Dictionary of Musical Information," Moore.

10. "Musical Instruments," Engel.

11. Parker's "Harmony," by J. C. D. Parker.

12. "History of Music" (partly illegible title), by ——. [text in image partly obscured]

13. "Manual of the Organ," J. Nicholson.

14. "Musical Biography," D. Baptie.

15. "The Violin," A. Lyon.

16. "Five Thousand Musical Terms," Adams.

17. "First Songs," Ferris.

18. "Great Vocalists and Pianists," Ferris.

19. "Hand-Book for the Piano," —— (American fingerings) [small type partly obscured]

20. "Plainly's Technical Studies" (American Fingering?). [some titles partly unclear in the image]

21. Cramer's "Studies" (English edition, foreign fingering), revised by ——.

22. Sacchini's "Harmony." [the latter entries and pricing details partly blurred in the scan]

None of the above books are worn to any amount, and few of them even soiled. The regular retail price of the lot is about $95.00; I will send it to any address, by freight or express, for $12.00, and throw in some standard music if the order is received early. No book sold separately. Such an opportunity will not occur again.

F. O. Jones,
Canaseraga, N. Y.

THE MUSICIAN,

By Ridley Prentice.

A GUIDE FOR PIANO STUDENTS, IN SIX GRADES,

The First Grade Now in Preparation.

Price, 75 Cents Each.

The work gives analyses of most of the popular teaching pieces, besides everything pertaining to them, namely, the circumstantial general directions for their study, daily marks and models, questions on their construction, etc., with reference marks, hints for teachers, notes on fingering, and numerous special exercises with special points for practice. Illustrations and full explanations of the different methods and styles of playing are given, and a complete description is given at the beginning of each grade.

Address the Publisher,
THEO. PRESSER,
1004 Walnut Street, Phil'a,
Box 283.

COURSE IN HARMONY.

BY

GEORGE H. HOWARD, A. M.

This Course, now current in THE ETUDE, is far enough completed to be of service as a text-book on Harmony. The pages are put up in a neat pamphlet, and are now on sale.

Price,
Per Dozen, . . . 25 cents.
$2.00

Address,

THEODORE PRESSER,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Lock Box 283.

THE MUSIC TEACHERS' BUREAU OF ENGAGEMENT

FOR COLLEGES, SEMINARIES, etc., has issued new circulars, and modified its terms for the coming season. Send to this office for information.

THE SEASHORE SCHOOL.
Eighth Annual Session.

[There is an illustrated circular advertisement in the lower right corner of the page. It consists of a round seal or vignette showing a seashore scene: a stretch of beach with waves, several small sailboats on the water, and a distant horizon. Around the circular vignette is decorative lettering and a border. The words "THE SEASHORE SCHOOL. Eighth Annual Session." are prominent above or around the circle. Additional small type in the advertisement gives particulars of the school and an address: Address, B. W. Putnam, Jamaica Plain, Boston, Mass. The ad contains other small promotional text and decorative flourishes; some of the smaller words in the border and inner text are not fully legible in this reproduction.]

[Note: A few lines and small type in the center bargain list and in the Seashore School circular are faint or partially obscured in the provided image and could not be confidently transcribed.]
THE ETUDE. 95

Conservatories, Music Schools, Etc.

School of Musical Art!
FORT SCOTT, KANSAS,
D. DE FOREST BRYANT, DIRECTOR.

Superior advantages offered to students in Piano, Organ,
Voice, Harmony, Orchestral and Band Instruments.
Special preparatory department for Teachers.
Classes in German, French, Literature and Mathematics.
Terms for instruction, any instrument, ten weeks, $10.00.
Instrumental pupils receive full instruction in Harmony
and Voice, and all vocal pupils receive examination free.
Send for circulars.

Conservatory of Music.
EUREKA, ILLINOIS.

Full conservatory course in Piano, Violin, Pipe Organ,
Voice training and Harmony. Aside from regular pupils,
vocalists and other artists engaged in concert and church
service, pupils are admitted to special instruction. Good
board can usually be obtained at low rates. For circulars
and particulars, address JOHN W. MCALPIN, Director,
Eureka, Ill.

THE NEAVE MUSIC SCHOOL!
SALISBURY, N. C.

PIANO—Solo and Orchestral. VOICE CULTURE. FLUTE,
Slide Trombone, Cornet, and all of its Valve Contrivances.
Teachers’ Book, etc., and all of the modern methods.
Thorough instruction given in Practical Composition and Instrument-
al Playing—in every point covered by the "kev---"
W. H. NEAVE, Principal.

N. B.—Pianistic art, genuine and equitable climate insure
the school’s location.

Baxterian Musical Institute;
DES MOINES, IOWA.
ORGANIZED 1877.
MISS JULIE E. NICHOLS, PRINCIPAL.
Send for Catalogue.

ANN ARBOR SCHOOL OF MUSIC,
Established in connection with the
University of Michigan and Ann Arbor High-School.

OBJECTS—To combine Musical and Literary Studies as a broad
basis for thorough training in the University; to give such
musical instruction as will prepare for teaching and church
service; to supply a thorough course for those desiring
a finished artistic musical education; to give instruction in
Piano, Organ, Voice, Violin and Theory; to assist in the
formation of Musical Clubs and Societies; to prepare
teachers for Normal Work, and to train amateurs for a
higher cultivation of musical taste.
Send for announcement to CALVIN B. CADY, Director,
ANN ARBOR, MICH.

GREENVILLE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
GREENVILLE, S. C.

This is situated in the City of Greenville, in a very pleasant part of
the city, in large buildings, and under the immediate supervision of
experienced Teachers. The instruction comprises Piano, Organ, Violin,
Singing, Harmony, Counterpoint, and a thorough course of study
in all branches of a complete musical education. Boarding can be
obtained in private families; also a Home for young ladies. The Conservatory
is conducted in connection with the GREENVILLE FEMALE COLLEGE
and the advantages of the College may be enjoyed by such students as
wish. Address for circulars and full particulars,
M. G. DeCAMPS, Director,
or A. S. TOWNER,
President of the GREENVILLE FEMALE COLLEGE.

Bound Volumes
OF
"THE ETUDE,"

Containing every issue of the Journal since its estab-
lishment, October, 1883, together with a sketch of the life
of the Editor, elegant Frontispiece, and Table of Contents.

PRICE $2.50, BOUND IN LEATHER.
34 CENTS EXTRA IF SENT BY MAIL.
Address the Publisher,
Theodore Presser,
104 WALNUT STREET,
Philadelphia, Pa.
BOX 262.

KNABE,
GRAND, SQUARE, AND UPRIGHT
PIANO-FORTES.

These Instruments have been before the Public for nearly
sixty years, and upon their excellence
have attained an
UNSURPASSED PREFERENCE,
Which establishes them as
UNEQUALED
in
Tone, Touch, Workmanship, and Durability;
Every Piano fully Warranted for 5 Years.

Wm. KNABE & Co.,
Nos. 204 & 206 W. Baltimore Street, BALTIMORE.

HELP.

For working people. Send 10 cents postage, and
we will send you a small package that will teach you a
way of making money by the day's leisure and without
interfering with your regular labor. Good for the old and
young, and more useful than a common school education.
Send stamp for circular. Address,
STINSON & CO., Portland, Maine.

THE MUSICAL RECORD,
A Monthly Publication

DEVOTED TO GENERAL MUSICAL LITERATURE,
CURRENT NEWS, CRITICISMS, CORRES-
PONDENCE, ETC.

Each number contains new and choice music that, if
purchased separately, would cost more than the yearly
subscription.

The MUSICAL RECORD has been before the musical
public since the late A. GUILMANT'S JOURNAL OF
MUSIC, thus making it the oldest musical monthly in
the United States. With a large staff of able contributors,
and the distinguished editorial corps, THE MUSICAL RE-
CORD stands in the front rank among musical journals
in the country.

Subscription, $1.00 a Year. Sample Copy Free.
Address,
OLIVER DITSON & CO.,
BOSTON, MASS.

ADVERTISERS
Can learn the exact cost of
any proposed line of Ad-
vertising in American
Papers by addressing
Geo. P. Rowell & Co.'s
Newspaper Adv'g Bu-
reau, 10 Spruce St., N. Y.

ADVICE TO MOTHERS.—Are you disturbed at night and
broken of your rest by a sick child suffering and crying
with pain of cutting teeth? If so, send at once and get a
bottle of Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup for Children
Teething. Its value is incalculable. It will relieve the
poor little sufferer immediately. Depend upon it, mothers,
there is no mistake about it. It cures dysentery and diar-
rhea, regulates the stomach and bowels, cures wind colic,
softens the gums, reduces inflammation, and gives tone and
energy to the whole system. Mrs. Winslow's Soothing
Syrup for Children Teething is pleasant to the taste, and
the prescription of one of the oldest and best female nurses
and physicians in the United States, and is for sale by all
drugists throughout the world. Price 25¢ a bottle.

WIN more money than at anything else by taking an
agency for the best selling book out. Beginners
succeed rapidly. No failure. Terms free. HALLER
BOOK CO., Portland, Maine.

"THE ETUDE,"
A MONTHLY PUBLICATION

FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE PIANOFORTE.

Subscription, One Dollar
and Twenty-five Cents.

Specimen Copy Sent, Postage Free, for 10 Cts.
Premium List on Application.

A Few Reasons Why You Should be a Reader of
"THE ETUDE."

1. To deepen your interest in the work of teaching.
2. To further increase your pupils' interest in the study
   of the Piano.
3. To acquaint you with the development of modern
   Piano-forte playing.
4. To give hints, suggestions, and illustrations that
   may be of value in teaching.
5. To provide you with valuable Piano Studies for
   teaching purposes.
6. To give you the current events in the Musical world.
7. To answer for you, through its columns, any question
   relating to the Pianoforte.
8. TO KEEP ALIVE IN YOU THE ZEAL FOR
   HIGHER ATTAINMENT.

Address
THEODORE PRESSER,
BOX 262.
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Non-textual images and decorative elements:
- Ornamental header "THE ETUDE." at top center with page number "95" at top right.
- Decorative divide lines and rules separating columns.
- Stylized and ornamental typography for headings such as "School of Musical Art!", "KNABE", "Bound Volumes of 'THE ETUDE,'" and "THE ETUDE." The KNABE logotype is large, bold, and shaded to appear three-dimensional.
- Small ornamental flourishes and border lines around several advertisements and headings, used for emphasis and visual separation. No photographic images or pictorial illustrations are present beyond typographic ornamentation.
96                                THE ETUDE.

THEODORE PRESSER,

1004 WALNUT STREET,
PHILADELPHIA, PA.,
MUSIC PUBLISHER,
AND

Dealer in all kinds of Musical Merchandise,

SCHOOLS AND TEACHERS FURNISHED WITH MUSIC
AT THE LOWEST RATES.

THE BROTHERHOOD TECHNICON,

An Apparatus for Acquiring Technic of the Piano-forte.

This Invention is destined to Revolutionize the existing
Method of Developing Piano Technic.

It is pronounced by all the Leading Musicians as the most perfect Appliance of
the kind ever brought before the Musical World.

Circular giving full information sent free to any address on application.

ADDRESS

THEODORE PRESSER, Agent,
Lock Box 252.                              1004 Walnut Street, Phila.

$200,000 in presents given away. Send us 5 cents in
stamps for postage and we will mail you our handsome
Illustrated Catalogue, with full particulars, and tell you
how to obtain one of our magnificent watches or other
presents, free. The goods offered are elegant in style and
excellent in quality, and are suitable for presents at any
season. We make a specialty of fine goods for Ladies,
and all are warranted as represented. Send for catalogue.
Address, Hall, Haskell & Co.,
Portland, Maine.

LADIES can do their own stamping and get up beautiful patterns from the
"Patent Button-Hole Lister," a simple device for making button-holes, hemstitching,
and all kinds of fancy edging, making the work look as if done by a professional.
Send for circulars and sample designs. PATENT BUTTON-HOLE CO., 69 John St., N.Y.

A PRIZE. Send six cents for postage, and we will
send you a beautiful line engraving and a sample of our
work. Large premiums given for orders. Address THE
AMERICAN ENGRAVING CO., 21 Dey St., New York.

LADIES DO YOUR OWN STAMPING!
Send 10 cents for patterns and full instructions for ornamental
stamping on silk, velvet, merino, gloves, collars, cuffs, hats.
SEND TO DAY. PATTERN FOLD. CO., 12 Dey St., New York.

PIPE ORGAN FOR SALE,
AT A SACRIFICE.

Six Registers, 60 keys, 30 keys in pedal board,
full size. Superior build and tone, but little used, built
for Parlor and Student use. Suitable for Chapel or
Sunday-School use.

Address, for Price and particulars,
CHARLES W. LANDON,
Claverack, Columbia Co., N. Y.

THE
SONG GREETING,
By L. O. EMERSON.

PRICE, 60 CENTS. PER DOZEN, $6.

This book, just published, is, in many respects an advance on any
previous one in the substantial, general high character, and nice
adaptation of its contents.

Not a great deal of space is devoted to elementary instruction,
which belongs properly to the lower schools; but there are many
good Vocal Exercises and Solfeggi, and there are valuable
directions for the cultivation of the voice.

Song Greeting is intended for High Schools, Acad-
emies, Seminaries and other Musical and Educational Institutions and Colleges.
The music is of a high character, but not too difficult. There are
68 pieces in all, besides an Introductory quotation, making a book
useful to schools, and every way acceptable.

For a specimen copy, which will be mailed, post free,
send 20 cents for a specimen copy, which will be mailed, post free.

FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS
AND KINDERGARTENS.

Gems for Little Singers.

By Elizabeth U. Emerson and Gertrude
Swayne, assisted by L. O. Emerson.

ILLUSTRATED
With 25 Appropriate and Pretty Pictures.

One of the most charming singing books for little singers that has
ever appeared, and will be eagerly welcomed by teachers and parents.
The music is simple and pleasing, and the songs are well adapted to
the wants of the children. Contains many new and pretty songs,
and several familiar ones arranged with good taste.

Price, 30 cts., or $3.00 per doz.
Specimen Copies mailed for 30 cts.

CHILDREN'S SONGS,
AND HOW TO SING THEM.

For Common Schools. Edited by Christine Nilsson, Theo.
Thomas, and others. Any school or teacher will be at once en-
chanted by the charming, genial character of the songs, which are
so full of spirit.

By WM. L. TOMLINS.
Teacher's Edition, 75 cents, $7.50 per doz.
Scholars' Edition, 30 cents, $3.00 per doz.

FRESH FLOWERS.

Fresh Flowers is the title of a new beautiful and attractive
little Song Book for the younger children in Sunday-Schools and
Primary Classes, containing many bright and pretty songs, simple
in style, and adapted for singing classes and concert exercises.
The book is handsomely printed and illustrated, and will be sure
to please all who try it. Price, 25 cents, $2.50 per dozen.

MINSTREL SONGS—OLD AND NEW.

The large sales show this to be a perfect success, and no work
will give better satisfaction for socials and entertainments. Con-
tains many of the favorite plantation and comic songs, and
arrangements for Piano and Guitar. Price, 30 cents, $3.00 per doz.

O. DITSON & CO., Boston,
C. H. DITSON & CO., New York,
J. E. DITSON & CO., Philadelphia,
LYON & HEALY, Chicago.

DESCRIPTION OF NON-TEXTUAL ELEMENTS:
The page is a single printed advertisement page from an old music journal. At the very top center is the periodical title "THE ETUDE" with the page number "96" at the upper left. The layout uses a variety of large display typefaces for headings (notably "THEODORE PRESSER" across the upper left) and boxed sections separated by thin rules. Decorative horizontal rules and thin ornamental flourishes separate sections. There are no photographic images or illustrations on the page—only typographic ornaments, rules, and varying type sizes and styles; the right column includes a thin decorative border around the block advertising The Song Greeting and related books. The left edge of the page shows the dark inner margin from the bound volume.