Gardner-Webb University
Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University

The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957                                      John R. Dover Memorial Library

10-1956

Volume 74, Number 08 (October 1956)

Guy McCoy


Follow this and additional works at: https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude

Part of the Composition Commons, Ethnomusicology Commons, Fine Arts Commons, History Commons, Liturgy and Worship Commons, Music Education Commons, Musicology Commons, Music Pedagogy Commons, Music Performance Commons, Music Practice Commons, and the Music Theory Commons


Recommended Citation

McCoy, Guy (ed.). The Etude. Vol. 74, No. 08. Philadelphia: Theodore Presser Company, October 1956. The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957. Compiled by Pamela R. Dennis. Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC. https://digitalcommons.gardner-webb.edu/etude/88


This Book is brought to you for free and open access by the John R. Dover Memorial Library at Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. It has been accepted for inclusion in The Etude Magazine: 1883-1957 by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Gardner-Webb University. For more information, please contact digitalcommons@gardner-webb.edu.

Non-textual images description:
- A small circular multicolored icon appears to the left of the line beginning "Part of the Composition Commons...". The icon is composed of several overlapping curved segments in red, yellow, blue and green, forming a roughly circular shape with a small white central area. 
- There are thin horizontal divider lines used near the top of the page (beneath the main title) and above the "Recommended Citation" section; these are simple straight gray rules spanning the content width.
ETUDE
The Music Magazine

October 1956 / 40 cents

String Quartette by Jack Levine

See cover story—Page 6

Description of non-textual image:
The cover shows a painted scene of a string quartet of four male musicians in formal evening dress (white bow ties and black tailcoats) intensely playing their instruments (two violins, a viola or second violin, and a cello). The painting uses dark, warm colors with deep reds and browns in the background and visible sheets of music among the players. The magazine cover has a vertical tear/crease running from near the top left down through the left side of the painting. A small rectangular beige mailing/library sticker is affixed near the top right; the sticker bears partially-obscured blue stamped text and the small printed characters "126 W" near its top edge (most of the sticker text is obscured and not fully legible).
Shall it be a piano—
or merely small pleasures?

Mary's parents are the average sort of people who do most of America's buying.

Having only a limited income, they can afford to give Mary relatively few large "advantages".

So what shall these advantages be? More clothes? More movies? A larger allowance? Or maybe a piano and lessons?

Story & Clark believes that most parents will de-

cide wisely—if manufacturers, dealers and teachers all do their part to explain the importance of playing the piano.

To this end, Story & Clark has for years devoted a large part of its advertising to truly educational work, including several quite noteworthy booklets and pamphlets on this subject.

These booklets make excellent "public relations" material for piano teachers, dealers and music schools to mail or hand out. They are available free in any quantities you can use. We would welcome an opportunity to send you samples.

STORY & CLARK
Piano Company

28 East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago

INSTRUMENTS OF QUALITY—BY ONE FAMILY—FOR NEARLY 100 YEARS

THE HIT OR MISS
WAS GONE . . .

FOR THERE IT WAS . . . a complete list of 54 famous names in the world of music. And the combined talents of these noted musicians were incorporated into a plan of music education that was now mine to use . . . the Hit or Miss was gone from my teaching.

Since I have been appointed a Progressive Series teacher I have been repeatedly and pleasantly impressed with the thoroughness of this remarkable plan of music education. As I received the various materials, I discovered that it was constantly being revised and augmented to keep it complete and comprehensive.

Not only do my students excel but they also seem to gain a new insight into what they learn. And I myself have a greater understanding of music as a result of my new experience in teaching. As my students have been taught, I, too, have learned many things regarding music which I had not previously understood.

If you are a successful career private piano teacher, you too may benefit with a Progressive Series Appointment. But your musical qualifications must be good, because to be a Progressive Series teacher is to hold the ultimate in private music teaching status!

Why not investigate this distinguished plan. Do it now . . . you have everything to gain . . . nothing to lose . . . and there is no fee for Appointment, only ability to teach.

TEACHER AFFILIATION
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY

Career teachers with acceptable backgrounds and active classes are invited to inquire about Appointment and Teaching Authorization.

No fee for appointment

THE PROGRESSIVE SERIES PLAN OF MUSIC EDUCATION

- Tested Lesson Plans
- Teacher Workshops
- Pre-Instrumental Program
- Foreign Music Seminars
- Correlated Theory Program
- Superior Teaching Materials
- Institutional Affiliation
- Teacher Placement Service

A copy of the handsome brochure, "The Career Private Piano Teacher", will be sent without obligation to any active teacher.

PROGRESSIVE SERIES PLAN
CLAYTON, ST. LOUIS 5, MO.

* Progressive Series Teachers are located in every state and in foreign countries.

PROGRESSIVE SERIES PLAN
Dept. 104, P. O. Box 233, Clayton, St. Louis 5, Mo.

I am a career private piano teacher with an active class. Please send me a copy of "The Career Private Piano Teacher".

Name ________________________

Address ______________________

City _________________________ Average Number of Pupils ______

State _____ Zone _____

etude — october 1956

Descriptions of non-textual images:

Left page: A black-and-white illustration of a young girl (Mary) seated at an upright piano, shown in profile facing right. She is wearing a dark blouse and a plaid skirt, hands on the keys, reading sheet music propped on the piano. Behind and around her is a textured, painterly background giving emphasis to the figure and piano.

Right page, upper left: A simple line drawing of two children seated at a grand piano, one at the bench playing while the other watches. Stylized shadow shapes and piano outline accent the scene.

Right page, upper right: A black-and-white photograph of a smiling young woman shown from the shoulders up, turned slightly to her left, holding an open booklet titled "The Career Private..." (partial title visible on the booklet cover). She wears a light-colored blouse and has dark hair pulled back.
Hands...

that have grown to Musical Achievement!

It's hard to believe as you hear him perform today that those are the same fingers you took in your own and placed on the proper keys.

But this success is your success. As his teacher you have guided him through a maze of notes and keys ... and of equal importance are the pianos, that have in their response to his every feeling inspired him to greater heights.

Today he knows that his performance can be only as good as the instrument he uses. That's why his choice is always a piano with a Wood & Brooks Action — the piano action found in the World's Finest Pianos!

Write today for your free booklet "Your Piano and Its Action"

WOOD & BROOKS CO.
Manufacturers of Piano Keys and Actions
For More than 50 Years
Buffalo 7, New York        Rockford, Illinois

Discover this
Easy way
to file and find your
Sheet
Music

NO MORE lost, strayed, frayed or soiled sheet music. No more frantic search through mixed-up stacks of music. Don't pile it — FILE it in the wonderful finger-tip trays of a modern TONKabinet. Thousands say there's nothing else so handy; no other furniture fills the need so well. Beautiful finished cabinets for homes, schools, studios, churches. Capacities up to 2,750 pages.

WRITE FOR FREE
illustrated folder showing sizes and prices and the dealers who sell them. TONKABINET for SHEET MUSIC Finest music furniture since 1873
THE TONK MFG. CO., 701 N. Franklin St., Chicago 10, Ill.

ETUDE
THE MUSIC MAGAZINE

Founded 1883 by Theodore Presser

contents

FEATURES
10 Folk Music in Civilization, Bruno Nettl
11 Wallingford Riegger — Composer and Pedagogue, Richard Franko Goldman
12 The Loring Club, George C. Burton
13 The "Bach" of High Fidelity, Marion L. Briggs
16 Glenn Gould, A Debut and a Personality, Edward Viets
20 Opera Today, Abraham Skalicky
23 Disney Fun with Music, Rose Heylbut

DEPARTMENTS
4 World of Music
6 Musical Oddities, Nicolas Slonimsky
9 Music Lover's Bookshelf
16 Factual Versus Subjective Approaches to Piano Teaching, William S. Newman
17 The Dance, Walter Terry
18 New Records
21 An American in Europe, William D. Revelli
22 The School Music Director and Individual Practice, Truman Hinton
23 Christmas Carols — Their Historical Background, George Howerton
24 Solving Production Problems, Albert J. Eliss
25 Intonation Difficulties, Harold Berkley
27 Teacher's Roundtable, Maurice Dumesnil
28 Violin Questions, Harold Berkley
30 Organ & Choir Questions, Frederick Phillips
34 Starting the New Church Season, Alexander McCurdy
36 Transcribing Piano Music for the Accordion, F. Henri Klickman
44 Junior Etude, Elizabeth A. Gest

MUSIC
Piano Solo Compositions
24 Eclogue — Arthur Shet?
28 Toccata (The Wind) — Andre? (from "Sonatas and Fantasies" by W. A. Mozart edited by Nathan Broder)
34 Instrumental Compositions (Bb Clarinet) — Richard F. Fair
Pieces for the Young Pianist
36 Dark Night — Luella Saw?
38 Morning Prayer — Louise S?
39 Merry Little Milkwheel — Beryl B?
39 Parakeet's Summer Song — Ursula Leu-McFarlane?

James Francis Cooke, Editor Emeritus (Editor 1907–1949)

Guy McCoy, Editor
George Rochberg, Music Editor
V. L. Fanelli, Art Director

Contributing Editors: Harold Berkley, Theresa Costello, Maurice Dumesnil, Albert J. Eliss, Elizabeth A. Gest, Rose Heylbut, George Howerton, Alexander McCurdy, William J. Mitchell, William D. Revelli, Ralph E. Rush, Nicolas Slonimsky, Walter Terry

etude — october 1956

You’ll wonder why you waited so long

All these years of listening to music on records, at concerts, on TV ... and never, never was it quite like this.

You touch the keys of your Hammond Organ, and begin a beloved melody. How different, how alive and glorious it sounds to you. As though you had twenty fingers, as though you were leading an orchestra all by yourself.

You will never get over the thrill of it ... how much a Hammond can do with your simplest music. For this is the instrument that gives you the most ... the most variety of tone, the most delicate shadings for every kind of music. You don't have to be a genius to enjoy it. People who have never played before get pleasure from a Hammond Organ in a month, or less.

Your Hammond dealer can actually demonstrate how quickly and easily you can learn to play a Hammond. See him soon, or mail the coupon.

A Hammond does more because ...
Only Hammond has Harmonic Drawbars that you can adjust to create thousands of tones and tonal blends. Only Hammond has "Touch-Response Percussion Control" to give you added snap, xylophone, and other percussion effects. Only Hammond has Separate Vibrato Controls on each keyboard for more expressive interpretation of your music.

Only $135 down for the Hammond Spinet (not shown) at most dealers ... up to three years to pay. Available in Blond, Ebony or Walnut finish.

Hammond Organ Company
4210 W. Diversey Ave., Chicago 39, Illinois
Please send me literature on how to play the Hammond Organ and on my local Hammond dealer.

Name _______________________________________________________________

Address _____________________________________________________________

City ________________________ Zone ______ State ______________________

etude — october 1956

Description of non-textual images:
- Left-page top: A small illustration of hands on piano keys is used in the "Hands..." advertisement. The drawing shows a pair of hands playing an upright keyboard, angled slightly toward the viewer.
- Left-page lower ad: A vertical graphic of a multi-drawer cabinet (TONKabinet) with sheet music partially fanned out and a small illustration of a filing tray to suggest easy access to music.
- Right page: A large black-and-white photograph showing a domestic living-room scene. In the foreground on the right, the back of an older man’s head and shoulder are visible, looking toward a woman seated at a Hammond organ in the middle distance. The woman is shown from behind at a bench, playing the organ, with a small plant and a framed picture on the wall behind her. The composition emphasizes the perspective from the listener’s point of view, with the player and instrument illuminated in the room.
I can’t confidently capture all the small-print text from this image at once because parts are too small and blurry to guarantee an accurate, complete transcription. Could you provide a higher-resolution scan or cropped close-ups of the left- and center-page columns? That will let me extract every word precisely.

In the meantime, here is a full, accurate transcription of the right-hand page (the Everett piano advertisement) and a description of the non-text images on the spread:

Transcription — right page (Everett ad)

"Take it from me, pianos have changed, too!"

the Modern in dramatic ebony

Just as teaching methods have improved over the years, so has the piano . . . and, in the last decade, Everett set the pace. Not only in style leadership but in technical innovations as well.

For instance, the iron lever backposts that keep an Everett in true condition . . . taut, dynatension, a high tension scale as used in a grand. And now . . . Forward Sound, a tone escapement grilles that gives Everett full tone fidelity. May we send you our new booklet and the name of your nearest franchised dealer? Everett Piano Company, Division of Meridian Corp., South Haven 3, Michigan.

EVERETT
with forward sound

the Modern in limed oak

Caption under small boxed photo at lower right:
etude—october 1956

Description of non-textual images on the spread

- Upper-left corner of the left page: a stylized circular globe/planet graphic with the words "world of music" overlaid in a diagonal, decorative script. The graphic looks like a world map silhouette inside a circle with horizontal lines trailing behind the circle.

- Upper-right of the right page: a black-and-white photograph of a woman seated at an upright piano. She is wearing a light-colored dress and looking at the camera; the piano is dark (caption: "the Modern in dramatic ebony"). There is a vase of flowers on top of the piano.

- Lower-right of the right page: a second black-and-white photograph showing an Everett piano in a domestic living-room setting. The piano appears to be a lighter finish (caption: "the Modern in limed oak"). The room includes curtains and a small table with a cup and saucer in the foreground.

If you send a higher-resolution or cropped image of the left page (especially the boxed "MUSIC FOR THE PIANO" section and the narrow center columns) I will transcribe every line precisely.
NEW...
The WERDER-PAUL
PIANO COURSE

by
JOHN PAUL, Mus. D.
Head, Music Department

RICHARD WERDER, ED. D.
Director of Music Education
at
The Catholic University of America

Ready Now
Young Music Makers
Instruction Book I
Instruction Book II
Instruction Book III
Theory and Musicianship Book

Technic Studies I
Technic Studies II
Christmastide
Hymns for Home

Order from your dealer, or
MCLAUGHLIN AND REILLY CO.
252 Huntington Ave.
Boston 15, Mass.

Earn MORE
Teaching PIANO
enroll now for
Advanced HOME STUDY!
Improve your own performance!
Learn latest improved
methods to stimulate your
students' interest. Keep them
progressing faster!
Our outstanding Teacher's Piano
Course offered thru Home Study
treats and solves every teaching
problem.
WRITE TODAY FOR SAMPLE LESSON

UNIVERSITY EXTENSION CONSERVATORY
2000 S. Michigan, Chicago 16, Dept. A-861
Please send me sample lesson
and full information about
Teacher's Normal Piano
Course.

NAME_____________________
ADDRESS__________________
CITY______________________
ZONE_____ STATE___________

Musical
Oddities

By NICOLAS SLONIMSKY

THE EXCITEMENT and frenzy with which Jenny Lind was greeted in Europe and America a century ago approached a state of public hysteria. It was all the more remarkable because she was not handsome in her features and her manner of presentation lacked all external glamour. A vivid account of Jenny Lind's appearance was contributed by a writer under the signature "A Stranger in Boston" to the Vermont Chronicle of October 29, 1850: "Jenny Lind is rather small; her person slender, but with an ample expansion of chest; her eyes large, full and expressive, and her whole countenance benevolent, modest, dignified and intellectual. She stands nearly still and perfectly self-possessed, her compressed lips giving an expression of firmness and resoluteness; her eyes are either directed to the music she holds in her hands or turn slowly round upon the audience. There is in her bearing that beautiful propriety which delights everybody. The delicacy and purity of her voice nothing can exceed—a canary bird's is not clearer nor more liquid."

Jenny Lind was introduced to America by that showman extraordinary, P. T. Barnum, but not even he could induce her to become a circus exhibit. She was not athletic; in fact, it was discovered that she had to use a chair in order to mount the platform for her morning ride. Barnum's original plan to have her float down from the ceiling like an angel, suspended upon a system of hidden pulleys, was unsuccessful. But he was shrewd enough to point out the commercial advantage that the presence of Jenny Lind in any American city would bring to the merchants. He wrote to a theatrical manager in St. Louis: "Jenny Lind fills every theatre, hotel, store and shop with money wherever

she goes, and sheds blessings on all — drivers, shoemakers, milliners, tailors, and every calling under heaven."

For Jenny Lind's Boston appearance in 1850, the Boston publishing Co. of F. Gasson issued a special broadside, printed on folio format with golden type, retailing at 12 1/2 cents a copy. The editorial explained the purpose of the publication: "What! the life of such a fair being as Jenny Lind — whose name and features are at the head of this paper, than letters of gold? Let it not be imagined that we are actuated by a mercenary spirit; let those who feel inclined to think so, count the cost and compare it with the price of the sheet. We are impregnated with a degree of enthusiasm that has so completely pervaded all classes; the spell which has cast over all hearts is the sweetest interpreter of praise; and we are only losing nothing of its zest, as the [rest of this sentence obscured in image]."

In New York Jenny Lind visited the Asylum for the Blind on Ninth Avenue. This visit inspired a poem signed by James Nack, who describes himself as "A deaf and dumb poet." The poem was published in the magazine "Living Age" in 1850 and contained the following stanza:

Hurrah for Jenny Lind!
Her glorious singing voice
Can not this ear rejoice,
By fate forever sealed!
Yet can her deeds impart
Such music to my heart
As heaven alone could yield.

Not only in America, but in Europe, Jenny Lind created a furore. After her concert in a German town in 1846, local students besieged the inn where she had been staying, and as soon as her carriage departed, they rushed into her room, tore up the bed sheets, and made them into ribbons, with which they decorated their jackets. An Englishman who was staying in the inn returned for lunch after a walk, and was greatly disturbed at the scene. "These students are very excitable," he said to the innkeeper. "Perhaps I ought to leave this place, for they probably resent foreigners. While I was gone, they invaded my room, tore up my sheets, and now I see they use the strips as trophies or decorations." Indeed, the students had gone to the wrong room, and appropriated the souvenirs not of Jenny Lind, but of the unglamorous Englishman.

A tricky question for a quiz session: Which was the second "Carmen" by Bizet? The answer is, "Carmen saeculare", a cantata after Horace, which Bizet wrote in 1860. "Carmen" is, of course, the Latin word for Poem.

Berlioz sent the score of his choral symphony "Damnation of Faust" to Goethe himself, in 1829. The great man was then 80 years old. He could not read music, and gave the score to his friend, the good academic musician Karl Friedrich Zelter, for his appraisal. Zelter examined the score and wrote to Goethe: "There are individuals who express themselves by coughing and expectorating. Berlioz seems to be one of them. The odor of Mephisto's sulphur fills our lungs, and he sneezes, making an infernal noise in his orchestra."

Adelina Patti was reproached by friends when she sang in a second-class hall in London. "There is no second-class establishment when I sing," she proudly replied; "for if there is, it becomes first-class the moment I appear there."

THE COVER THIS MONTH
The subject of ETUDE's cover for October is an original painting entitled [title obscured] by [artist name obscured]. The artist won a prize of $300 and the work was completed in 1954. The painting is in the collection of the [museum name obscured], whose courtesy is hereby acknowledged.

etude—october—1956

from Baldwin...
another triumph in piano engineering

THIS NEW HAMILTON
STUDIO PIANO

[Large detailed illustration of an upright studio piano, shown full front/three-quarter view, with open top exposing the strings and mechanism. The piano rests on short legs with casters.]

HEAR THE DIFFERENCE,
FEEL THE DIFFERENCE

[Four small sequential line-drawing illustrations, each showing a pianist and a small group of listeners reacting; each illustration captioned:]
IN ATTACK...
IN EVENNESS...
IN VOLUME...

• More soundboard area
• Greater string length
• More vigor, vitality, volume

Baldwin engineers have developed a completely new scale for the Hamilton studio piano. Only slightly wider than its predecessor, Style 243 has significantly greater soundboard area and increased string length throughout the bass. This, with redesigning of ribs and bridges, results in a sound best described as TONE LIFT. You feel the difference in tone, you feel the positive response and ease of playing. You hear it in the volume, quality, vitality of tone. For today's outstanding achievement in piano engineering ... the perfect piano for teaching, school, professional and institutional use or for the home ... get the full facts on this new Hamilton, Style 243.

Send today for the new Hamilton Fact File and
Exclusive Baldwin Institutional Financing Arrangement.

Baldwin
PIANOS • ORGANS
America's first family
in music

The Baldwin Piano Company, Dept. E-106
1801 Gilbert Avenue, Cincinnati 2, Ohio

Please send:
___ Hamilton Style 243 Fact File
___ Exclusive Baldwin Institutional Financing Arrangement

ORGANIZATION__________________________
NAME__________________________________
ADDRESS_______________________________
CITY_______________ ZONE_____ STATE_____

etude—october—1956

(Page numbers: 6 at lower left of left page; 7 at lower right of right page)

Descriptions of non-textual images:
- Center-top of the two-page spread: large decorative script title "Musical Oddities" with elegant cursive lettering occupying the top of the middle columns.
- Right-page main illustration: a detailed drawing of an upright studio piano (Hamilton Style 243) shown at three-quarter view, top lid raised to show strings and inner mechanism; piano has a simple rectangular cabinet, short turned legs with small caster wheels.
- Immediately beneath the piano illustration: four small cartoon-style line drawings in sequence illustrating the expressive improvements. Each shows a pianist at a piano with small listeners reacting:
  1) Labeled "IN ATTACK..." shows a pianist striking keys and listeners leaning forward, surprised.
  2) Labeled "IN EVENNESS..." shows more balanced listening posture among the audience.
  3) Labeled "IN VOLUME..." shows listeners covering ears or reacting to louder sound.
  4) (Arrangement implies four small vignettes emphasizing difference in tone and response.)
- Left-page contains two boxed advertisements: at top left the Werder-Paul Piano Course ad with bold headline and list of course books; below it an "Earn MORE Teaching PIANO" boxed advertisement with a circular inset headline and a sample-request form at the bottom.

Note: A few small portions of the center article and the small boxed item "THE COVER THIS MONTH" are partly obscured or blurred in the photograph and could not be read with complete certainty; such words and names are indicated as obscured above.
I extracted the legible text and describe the non-text images. Some small-type portions (particularly fine-print publisher/pricing lines in the ADA RICHTER ad and a few narrow columns in the center article) are not fully legible at this resolution; I marked those areas as unclear and can re-scan or re-crop if you want absolute, character-for-character accuracy for those lines.

Non-textual image descriptions
- Left page, top: A black grand piano shown in three-quarter view (keyboard and lid visible, legs and pedals visible). The photograph is centered in the upper left quadrant of the page.
- Left page, center-left: A simple black-and-white line illustration of a young woman sitting on a stool, playfully holding sheet music in both hands; she appears to be looking at or waving the sheets. The illustration accompanies the ADA RICHTER PIANO COURSE advertisement.
- Right page, right column: A vertical stack of stylized book-cover images showing The LEILA FLETCHER PIANO COURSE; five little tilted book covers are arranged descending diagonally. The ad uses bold black rectangles to represent the book covers with the title repeated on each.

Transcribed text (all clearly legible portions)

[Left page, under piano photo]
Success
IN THE STUDIO OR ON THE STAGE
REQUIRES AN INSTRUMENT YOU CAN RELY ON ALWAYS

there is nothing more reliable than a

Mason & Hamlin
pianofortes of professional performance

DIVISION OF AMERICAN AMERICAN CORPORATION, East Rochester, New York

[Left page, ADA RICHTER ad header and body]
Use a LOGICAL Method

The new

ADA RICHTER
PIANO COURSE

New problems are introduced gradually --
Then developed logically --
Stress always on practical application --
Growing piano skills feed on sustained learning processes.

Easy
Effective
Entertaining for the Student

Clear
Comprehensive
Contemporary for the Teacher

See it at your dealer, without delay
M. WITMARK & SONS • 619 WEST 54TH STREET, NEW YORK 19, N. Y.

[Fine-print price and book-list lines in the ADA RICHTER ad are too small/blurred in the image to transcribe with complete confidence; I can re-scan or crop this area if you want those exact lines captured.]

[Center/top column heading]
The Bookshelf

Dietrich Buxtehude
by Farley K. Hutchins

Reviewed by Alexander L. Ringer

Almost twenty years ago W. Stall published his brief German introduction to the life, times, and works of Dietrich Buxtehude. Despite its conciseness this little volume proved extremely useful to both musicians and music lovers seeking information about the composer for whose sake J. S. Bach overstayed his leave from Arnstadt to the great displeasure of his employer. The recent Buxtehude revival in this country alone would have warranted a similar monograph in English, summarizing as much as possible of the impressive Buxtehude research now abroad, especially in Scandinavia and the Low Countries. In this country, however, more than ordinary interest, foresight, and energy have been displayed in the preparation of this new work, and the present volume gives ample evidence of them.

The author, it appears from the author's preface, has merely reworked some readily available information according to an amateurish plan that tends to confuse rather than clarify. The appended list of editions, recordings, references, and anthologies—items which could have been of real value—are not only incomplete and are more often than not filled with incorrect data, but also contain a goodly number of volumes which are either too old to be of service today or have little, if any, direct bearing upon the subject. The book as a whole is poorly edited and proofread and in places sloppily printed. Worse of all is the cheap reprint of material from an earlier writer (Bukofzer's "Music in the Baroque Era") which is not only taken without quotation marks but is even more, in parts, an apparent wholesale lifting of Bukofzer's pages. There is no indication that Bukofzer's text has been used, credited, or paraphrased, and the reader is left in doubt as to the author's real contribution. A student's bibliography should have been indexed and presented with clearer critical judgement.

That many of the present failings could have been avoided by competent editorial and publishing supervision is obvious. At the same time, the author has gathered and presented some material of interest; there are some good biographical details and a number of useful lists of works. The book is therefore to be judged as simultaneously of real service and of limited scholarly value. It is to be hoped that a more thorough and more critically conceived treatment will appear in the near future.

[Next paragraph; mid-column continuing]
...some madrigals by Danish composers are a significant part of musical literature. Startling pieces of information such as this or the distinction between Buxtehude, "the north-German," and J. S. Bach, "the German," require at least a brief explanation. Finally, in view of the existence of a printed memorial poem by J. C. Ulrich, once wonders whether the death of Buxtehude really went as unnoticed as the author would have us believe.

What type reader might draw profit from this little volume is hard to say. Both musicians and music lovers sufficiently versed in musical history and terminology to understand the many unqualified stylistic and formal allusions would hardly seem to be the kind to appreciate the author's innumerable, often hair-raising oversimplifications and exaggerations (during the Thirty Years War parts of Germany "were reduced to a primitive state, almost cannibalism"). The musical novice, on the other hand, will not be able to get more than a general orientation from the book without the help of a dictionary to refer to terms such as concerto, madrigal, or cantus firmus. And whatever their specific background, few Americans will be ready to condone the lack of translations for the German texts quoted, especially where an example is offered to demonstrate the musical interpretation of a given passage.
Music Textbook Co. $2.50

[Center lower column heading]
WORLD OF MUSIC
(Continued from Page 5)

Ellenville, New York, on July 19. Leopold Stokowski conducted the Symphony of the Air in the premiere.

The Philadelphia Orchestra, Eugene Ormandy, conductor, is making it possible for thousands of students of Philadelphia area high schools to have the opportunity to attend a number of rehearsals of the orchestra during the season. About 3000 students will be admitted on the project and four rehearsals will be given. The project will not only encourage the appreciation of music, but will also aid talented students in making progress in their musical careers.

Reinhold Gliere, noted Russian composer, died recently in Russia at the age of 84. For many years he was active in Russian musical affairs, being a prominent figure in the musical life of his country. He was decorated with many honors including the Order of Lenin; he also received the Henry Hadley Medal for distinguished service to American music, and he was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Music by the New York College of Music.

[Right-hand column, top heading]
COMPETITIONS
(For details, write to sponsor listed)

The Church of the Ascension annual anthem competition. Award of $100 with publication and first performance at an Ascension Festival Service May 27, 1957. Deadline March 1, 1957. Details from Secretary, Anthem Contest, 12 West 11th Street, New York 11, N. Y.

St. Mark's Church, Philadelphia, third annual composers competition for a "Festival Voluntary" for organ. Award of $100 and publication by St. Mary's Press, New York. Closing date January 31, 1957. Details from Wesley A. Day, St. Mark's Church, 1625 Locust Street, Philadelphia 3, Pa.

Benjamin Award of $1000 for a "restful" musical composition offered through the North Carolina Symphony Society. Closing date December 31. Details from North Carolina Symphony Society, Box 1211, Chapel Hill, N. C.

Northern California Harpists' Association ninth annual competition. Two cash awards of $200 each for harp compositions. Deadline: December 31, 1956. Details from Yvonne La Mothe, 687 Grizzly Peak Blvd., Berkeley 8, California.

[Right page, large ad header and body]
for 1956-57 teaching season
use the finest!

THE LEILA FLETCHER
PIANO COURSE

BOOK ONE: The EASIEST beginner's book on the market today. Progress is almost automatic. Unique Keyboard Chart. 19 Duet parts for ensemble playing and early recital use. BOOK TWO: Grade 1. Ensures steady progress. A wealth of tuneful "five-finger" pieces. Duets, and second parts for ensemble playing. Ten very easy transposition studies—a happy introduction to keyboard harmony. Scales, Technique. BOOK THREE: Grade 1½ to 2. Carries forward the technical progress begun in Book Two. Each new musical idea is used in the pupil's practical experience. BOOK FOUR: Leads smoothly into Grade 2—no gaps to fill. Attractive reading pieces. Chords, Transposition. BOOK FIVE: Grade 2 and preparatory Grade 3. For style and proficiency in playing. For the pupil's musical enrichment. BOOK SIX: Grade 3. Price $1.00 each.

Order from Your Local Dealer

MONTGOMERY MUSIC, INC., 43 COURT STREET, BUFFALO 2, N. Y.

[Bottom margin footers]
etude—october 1956 (left page)
etude—october 1956 (right page)

Page numbers: 8 (left) and 9 (right)

Notes about unclear / unreadable portions
- The small fine-print block in the lower portion of the ADA RICHTER ad (detailed book listings, prices, and supplementary material notes) is too small/blurred in this image to transcribe with full confidence. I included the clearly legible headline, benefits list, and dealer line. If you want the exact wording and prices for every small line in that ad, please provide a higher-resolution crop of the lower-left area or let me crop and zoom that area.
- A few narrow lines inside the long center-column article (The Bookshelf / Dietrich Buxtehude) near the middle of the page were partly obscured or too small for perfect OCR; I captured the main paragraphs that are legible. I can provide a re-scan or a close-up crop of the center column to get every sentence verbatim.

If you want, I can: (1) crop and OCR any specific area you point to; (2) attempt a full character-level transcription again if you upload a higher-resolution image or a close-up of the small-print areas.
See and hear polyrhythms!

[Illustration: A small box-shaped device with a circular dial on its front and a pointer; stylized radiating grid background.]

THE DUNCAN RHYTHOCYCLE* makes the ordinary metronome obsolete, for it can repeat any rhythm pattern — even polyrhythms.

How the new DUNCAN RHYTHOCYCLE REVOLUTIONIZES THE LEARNING OF RHYTHM

Now, for the first time, you can set up the most complex rhythms so you can both see and hear them. A reduced metronome?

A single hand sweeps around the face at a preselected tempo, ticking off the beats wherever a metal clip has been inserted. As on a clock, there are 12 numbers and 60 slots for clips. A full sweep of the hand around the face constitutes one cycle. This cycle can represent only one metrical value. And you can divide a cycle into any desired rhythm pattern. These patterns can be seen and heard as the moving hand sweeps past the clips.

VLADIMIR SOKOLOFF, Member of the faculty, Curtis Institute of Music states: The Rhythmocycle will be of tremendous value to students and also to the professional musician ... confronted with intricate, rhythmic combinations.

See the Rhythmocycle demonstrated at your music store. No dealers who do not stock are authorized to distribute literature. For the name of your nearest dealer, write for a free descriptive folder.

Only $69.50

THE DUNCAN RHYTHOCYCLE
1616 Walnut St.
Philadelphia 3, Pa.
Pat. Pend. Copyrighted

[Page number 10 at bottom left]
etude — october 1956

FOLK MUSIC
In Civilization
by Bruno Nettl

SOME PEOPLE wonder about the value of folk music in a culture which has gone so far in musical evolution, a culture which can boast a Bach and a Mozart. What, then, is the place of folk music in our civilization? Does it have a legitimate function, or is it simply a relic of the past which is doomed to atrophy?

Because it is close to, and can be easily understood by, the ordinary person, folk music has often been subverted. It has been enlisted in the interests of patriotism, politics and business.

But folk music, studied and heard for its own sake, can give us many things. It is a unique musical experience, some of it is composed in modes, rhythms and harmonies different from those of the standard repertoires. We can learn history, geography, psychology from the words of folk songs. Above all, we can acquire musical tolerance. All peoples in the world have folk music. I am sure if an uninitiated reader had certain American Indian songs, Rumanian bagpipe tunes, or music from Central Asia, he might exclaim, "This is music!" But a bit of patience and repeated listening would probably convince him that it is indeed music, that it follows the basic principles of music, and that it is even pleasant to listen to. Ultimately he will see that musical experience can be immeasurably enriched by folk music, and he will agree that it has a place in everyone's musical life.

Folk music is taking a new turn. The gulf between the scholar, who puritanically studies the folk music of isolated villages, and the entertainer, who molds folk songs to the taste of the civilized public, is disappearing. A new type of folk singer is emerging, the scholar who combines creative talent with objectivity and authenticity, the singer who strives for an accurate representation of American folk culture. And, by the way, the same applies to folk dance.

A New Personality

In order to present to the reader some of the personalities who are active in this movement, I have interviewed two young men, both graduate students at Indiana University, and both building widespread reputations for their work. They are both at the point of joining the folk festival circuit and radio and television, and I would like to pass these on to the reader.

Bruce Buckley is a folk singer who does some television and radio work. Folkways has just issued a record of Ohio Valley Ballads sung by him. Buckley began to get interested in folk songs through his attraction to older styles like Burl Ives, but he soon decided that in order to get the spirit of the songs he would have to learn them as they were sung by members or real folk groups. He began to study the songs and made extensive field recordings in Southern Ohio, where his folkways record. On this record are eight songs, accompanied by guitar, mostly dealing with disasters, robberies, murders and other tragedies. (Continued on Page 48)

[Small note at lower center: etude — october 1956]

[Page number 11 at bottom right]

[Top center, small boxed logo]
ETUDE
THE MUSIC MAGAZINE

[Photograph: A black-and-white photo of Wallingford Riegger seated at a piano, in profile to the left; he wears glasses and a suit and is reading sheet music placed on the piano; venetian blinds are visible in the background.]

WALLINGFORD
RIEGGER...
Composer
and Pedagog

By RICHARD FRANKO GOLDMAN

AMONG THE BEST musical news of 1956 is the item that Wallingford Riegger is at work on his Fourth Symphony. This is a work that has long been awaited. Riegger's Third was composed in 1948, and its stature increases with the passage of years; it is widely considered to be one of the half-dozen best symphonies yet written by an American composer. Its recording, by Howard Hanson and the Eastman-Rochester Orchestra (Columbia), released last year, should do much to make it more generally known; and to make more widely shared the opinion that Riegger is one of America's most important musical creators.

Riegger waited a long time for the recognition that has come to him, but since the performance of the Third Symphony knowledge and appreciation of his work have increased rapidly, and his music appears on our concert programs with gratifying frequency. Riegger has never been a prolific composer, and much of his work does not fit the conventional categories for performance. These two facts have perhaps accounted for Riegger's disadvantage as far as public acquaintance with his music is concerned, but the situation now appears to be changing. Riegger is performed today as frequently as any other important American composer, even though the Third Symphony has yet to be heard in Carnegie Hall. His Quartets, works for chamber orchestra, songs and pieces for various chamber music combinations are being heard in all parts of the United States, as well as in Europe, and the commissions that did not come his way until the Third Symphony are now being offered him with some regularity. Riegger, who is now seventy-one years old, was born in Albany, Georgia, on April 29, 1885, and began the study of music at an early age with his mother, who was an accomplished pianist. The home was always full of music (in those sad days before radio and TV!), as Riegger's father, who was in the lumber business, played the violin quite well, and the children were all encouraged to take part in chamber music. When Riegger was three, the family moved to Indianapolis; there, a few years later, the youngster began to study the violin. Later on, after the family had moved to New York, young Riegger learned the 'cello, so that the family could have a string quartet. The 'cello remained Riegger's favorite instrument, and it was as a 'cellist that he was graduated from The Institute of Musical Art in 1905. At that time he also received his first training in composition from Percy Goetschius, who discouraged Riegger likely to become a "master" of the older school but not to avoid the influence of new trends; who considered Riegger likely to become a teacher rather than a revolutionary composer.

The home was always full of music and chamber music participation was encouraged. The family moved to Indianapolis when he was three; later to New York, where he learned the cello so the family could have a quartet. He graduated from The Institute of Musical Art in 1905 and received first composition training from Percy Goetschius. He spent several years in Germany, where he continued his studies both in cello and composition. He also served as a performer in the concert life of Europe and America, and later resumed composition with increasing independence and originality. Riegger's professional life included teaching and composition; his style developed through many influences but remained consistently individual. (Continued on Page 42)

[End of visible text on pages]
There's nothing like group singing for developing good fellowship, say members of San Francisco's famed
LORING CLUB

by GEORGE G. BURTON

THE new director of San Francisco's nationally famed Loring Club kissed his wife goodbye and quickly drove downtown. It was the eve of his professional debut with the 78-year-old men's vocal organization, and perhaps he was justified in being a bit nervous. Quickly he parked his car near the Veterans' Auditorium and hurried in. And then the air raid sirens blew. It was San Francisco's first black-out, the second day after Pearl Harbor. Date December 9, 1941.

Several thousand invitations had been sent out. Already, along the darkened streets, the first of his sixty-voice choruses were beginning to arrive ... in full dress. Quickly sizing up the situation, young Eugene Fulton phoned all the radio stations in the area. "You must tell them that the concert has been called off," he implored. And as the radio stations did. After the false announcement of the torpedoing of the Oregon Coast and the foreign news, the word came that the Loring Club concert had been postponed. As Fulton turned away from the phone he faced Alexander Fried, the music critic of the San Francisco Examiner. "Rough luck," gloomily commented Fried. And Fulton readily agreed. Their suggested that the Loring Club had been forced to add to its tradition of evening entertainment and in a few hours give their concert, and so it was that on the afternoon of December 29, 1941, just several weeks later, the Loring Club sang to a full house of 1400 in the Scottish Rite Auditorium. It has been singing afternoon concerts, incidental, ever since.

The Loring Club, "an association of gentlemen musically inclined," as the California Alta of March 1, 1877 described it, is San Francisco's oldest musical organization. It gives two regular yearly concerts, which, in keeping with Mr. Fried's suggestion, are now all in the afternoon.

David W. Loring, the founder of the Club, came to San Francisco in 1876. He was a member of a well-known Bostonian family and a founder of the celebrated Apollo and Chickering Clubs of that city. Shortly after his arrival, a mutual love of music brought a few of his friends together for evenings of group singing. Later in 1877 they resolved to form the Loring Club, and in 1885 the group was incorporated. Mr. Loring was an active member of the club until his death in 1917. The club's name was used at once to designate the organization.

From the very beginning, the Loring Club filled an important place in the social life of young, bustling San Francisco. Today, men from all walks of life and from all sections of the city, join the Club, but in the early days it was the house of the socially elite who made up the list of the Loring Club's membership. Public Rehearsals and Concerts of the Loring Club in the early days were fashionable events. When the 38 chartered members gave their first concert on October 17, 1877, the Call of that date described the glitter and dash of the fashionable audience as one that would rival the opening night of the day's San Francisco Opera season.

But music does not long stay the property of only the fashionable. Soon the common man found the organization, and a cynical reviewer had this to say in a subsequent Alta:

"Full dress was de rigueur, only a few brokers' clerks and the elderly gentlemen, still in frock coats, began to come to the fashion, being permitted within the white tie and swallowtail."

Since that time, the Loring Club has performed for thousands of people. Twice they sang at the last State Fair at San Francisco. Mr. Davidson, and their voices were broadcast around the world. Before the opening of the World's Fair on Treasure Island in 1938, they sang with a combined chorus from the Civic Music, Orpheum, and other societies of the Bay Area. In 1948 the Loring sang with the San Francisco Opera in De Meistersinger, gathering praise from the critics for that appearance. In 1952 the Loring Club celebrated its 75th Anniversary in San Francisco's mammoth Opera house, a hall that people said they would never see again. They played that day to a very near-capacity house, as they do now nearly (Continued on Page 14)

(etude—october 1956) 12

[Photograph description, left page: A black-and-white photograph showing a group of men standing in rows holding open music folders and singing, directed by a conductor at the right who faces them with one arm raised. In the foreground at left a pianist in a white blouse is seated at a grand piano accompanying the group. The singers are dressed in suits; the setting appears to be a rehearsal or performance hall.]

the "Bach" of High Fidelity —
from an interview with Robert D. Darrell, secured by Marion L. Briggs

AS FAR BACK AS 1939, high fidelity critic and expert in electronically recorded music, Robert D. Darrell, warned in "Music Lovers' Cyclopedia" that the "professional musician must be prepared to meet a new and higher standard of ability and taste" in his public, as a result of audiences' growing knowledge of music "through recorded performances of the world's finest artists."

Even in the smallest town, he declared, there are to be people at any concert not only familiar with the works to be played, but acquainted with them through recordings of experts. But one favorable result of this he saw was that "new music will lose much of its terror and instinctive opposition heard, rehearsed and studied on records." This is a boon to both composer and performer.

For the future of recorded music in general, he forecasts "there will be more emphasis on minimization of distortion, that is, cleaner reproduction and less background noise, than on mere extension of frequency range to reproduce very low and high tones, on which the emphasis has been so far." This is good news for the serious artist.

The hi-fi expert claims the seventy-eight revolutions per minute (rpm) record is dead in this country, except for children. "It's as obsolete as a do-do, other than as a museum piece. The thirty-five and one-third rpm LP is the only record for serious music. The forty-five's are for popular pieces exclusively—dance music and hit songs."

For twenty-five years, Darrell has specialized in both the musical and mechanical aspects of recorded music, written articles and books, and is at present musical consultant and editor for the Record Reviews Column of the etude. During World War II he took special training at Radio Technical Institute, New York City, to prepare him for service in the Signal Corps Reserve, after enlistment. Over-age, however, brought about his honorable discharge before he was ever called up for active duty.

"Having taken the course proved to be a good send," he says, "because it prepared me not only for what turned out to be my wartime service — writing and editing Army and Navy instruction books for Realistic Electronics Corporation — but for my present technical knowledge of audio."

The path that led him to become a specialist in recorded music is a strange one.

Except for a few piano lessons, he received no musical instruction as a child. "My piano lessons were a waste of time," he declares bluntly. "It's criminal to force musical training on a child until he has some personal interest in it."

Although his father was a semi-professional player of the trombone and double bass, he did not encourage his son in these. "Father was always going to teach me the trombone, but he never did," Darrell explains. "I wasn't interested in music until I was in high school. Then a classmate took me to a Friday afternoon rush line for a Boston Symphony concert, and I was so impressed by my first formal introduction to serious music that I vowed my intention to become an orchestral engineer or conductor —"

Shortly after he finished high school in his native Newton, Massachusetts, he enrolled for independent study at the New England Conservatory of Music near Symphony Hall in Boston. By this time, he wasn't missing a single Friday afternoon symphony concert. In fact, he was taking scores along.

Under Walter Starrett's wing, he made progress in composition for three years, then gave up the idea of becoming a composer when he failed in a prize-winning orchestral composition he had entered and submitted to the Conservatory.

"I was sort of banking on the prize," he says. "Then I realized it was apparently a mistake notion of mine that I could be a composer, and I knew the real bent lay elsewhere."

After he left the Conservatory, he wrote a few unsigned symphony concert reviews for W. S. Smith of the Boston Post. These started him on a writ-

[Photograph description, right page, top right: A small black-and-white portrait of an older man (Robert D. Darrell) seated outdoors or on a porch. He is balding with white hair at the sides and a white moustache and beard, wearing a short-sleeve checked shirt, looking off to his left with a slight smile. Caption nearby: Robert D. Darrell]

(etude—october 1956) 13
ing career in music, and soon a chance meeting with Richard G. Appel of the music division of the Boston Public Library resulted in his joining the staff of the nation's first magazine devoted to serious music on records, The Phonograph Monthly Review, back in 1926. He served this publication first as assistant to the initial editor, Axel B. Johnson, and as record reviewer. Later, he became the editor, and before the magazine folded in the Depression, it opened doors to him in free-lance writing on audio and recorded music at a time when public interest in these was growing.

"Twice in my life," he declares, "I've been one of the advance agents in a movement that later became widespread."

While the serious development of high fidelity did not come until the 1950's, Darrell was in it by 1931. He admits the growth of interest in hi-fi owes a good deal to do-it-yourself hobbyists, but he believes it stems mainly from the widening interest in recorded and broadcast music. "Of course, the advent of magnetic tape helped too," he says.

In his opinion, high fidelity does not have to be sensational to be effective.

"But the sensational stuff is what most dramatically attracts attention," he claims. "Although the neophyte is sometimes repelled by the sensational effect of high fidelity, and only after hearing serious music with quiet virtues can he have genuine interest in hi-fi, more often the serious-minded listener does not react to the quiet virtues of hi-fi—its purity, cleanliness, and naturalness of tone—until he has first been stimulated by some of its sensational dynamic impacts."

"One difficulty, he believes, is that recordings are always ahead of hi-fi equipment, except in the laboratory.

"The ordinary recorded listener just hasn't had access to the kind of equipment that will do full justice to his records."

Darrell first attracted quite a bit of attention as a record reviewer when he did the initial serious survey of Duke Ellington, appearing in Volume I of the former Discus magazine, under the title "Black Beauty."

For several years, he contributed a semi-technical column, "Highs and Lows," to the Saturday Review. Currently he writes an audio and book review column, "Listener's Bookshelf," for High Fidelity magazine, and is contributing editor to that publication's new sister journal, Audiocraft.

Writing reviews for Music Lovers' Guide brought him to New York City in 1932; then in the middle 30's he became record researcher and consultant for the Gramophone Shop. This post led to his compiling the "Gramophone Shop Encyclopedia of Recorded Music," the first work of its kind, which instituted discography and established Darrell nation-wide as an authority on recorded music.

With a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1939, he was able to devote all his time to free lance writing except for his war service. This fellowship enabled him to get together material for a book on recorded music. The result he called "Airs from Heaven and Blasts from Hell," a startling enough title; yet he decided the material was too disorganized to publish.

"The book wasn't a book; it was a dozen books," he affirms. But its substance later became the principal content of his popular book, "Good Listening," published by Knopf in 1953, and now in the New American Library pocket-size "Mentor" reprint series. Actually a handbook for record collectors, it is a guide to the world's best music and to music appreciation.

Darrell is convinced musical tastes are constantly changing in individuals.

"In my early days, I was a great proponent of Sibelius and Delius," he confesses. "Now they don't interest me particularly." Among his favorites today are Bach, Handel, Mozart, Berlioz, Stravinsky and Bartók.

To the researcher in Musicology, Darrell's compilation, "Schirmer's Guide to Books on Music and Musicians," published in 1951, has an appeal. In the introduction, he discusses how the available prior organize such a work successfully.

During a recent six months' experience when he was discographic consultant at the New York City Public Library, he helped set up the music division's record catalogue.

He is now at work on a new book called "Good Sound," which he hopes will do the same thing for reproduced music that "Good Listening" did for symphonic music.

His two personal heroes in the music world are the late Béla Bartók and Major Edwin H. Armstrong. Farther in this article, FM, about whom he wrote an article entitled "Major Armstrong: An American Tragedy" for the Saturday Review (February 27, 1954). THE END

THE LORING CLUB
(Continued from Page 12)

every season and every concert. They have come a long way from the day when Concerts were for members only. Wallace A. Sabin was the guiding genius of the Loring Club for twenty-eight years, and the fame of the Club is in large measure due to his great musical leadership and his endearing qualities as a man. He first took the baton in March, 1909, after being the group's organist since 1907. He died in 1937 at the age of 67. The well-known organist of Grace Cathedral, San Francisco, Richard L. Purvis was one of Mr. Sabin's favorite pupils.

Eugene Fulton is a professional musician. For twenty years he has taught voice in the Bay Area, where he lives with his wife Anne-Marie, and their two daughters. He is the Regional Director of the National Association of Teachers of Singing. The Minister of Music at the Lincoln Park Presbyterian Church, and the Director of the Bohemian Glee Club.

The Loring Club has weathered more than one or two setbacks in its history. The great earthquake and fire of April 18, 1906, disrupted the Club, scattered its members, and destroyed its entire Library. Still they came from weather-bitten shanties, green refugees-shacks and the wheeless steamers crowded "home," to raise the dust of unpaved roads and twisted cobblestone streets. They sang in a borrowed church with borrowed music, and in spite of the boiled water and canned foods of the months preceding, in spite of fear, regret, sorrow, the loss of friends, and the destruction of property, they looked to and saw a golden future, and each year a concert from their true San Francisco heart on the 18th day of September, 1906 only five short months after the holocaust had leveled a major portion of their city.

World War II itself brought many changes to the Loring Club. After several hours of rehearsal the overall edifice officers would pick up their helmets and lunch pails and be off to work at the shipyards at Hunters Point, or down at Bethlehem Steel.

Loring Club alumni have gone far in musical fields. Wilfred Glauz, a member of the nationally famous Revelers' quartet, who is at the Club, and also Ikiri Engen, who recently made his debut with the Vienna Opera in Verdi's "Nabucco."

No story of the Loring Club would be complete without mention of its Women's Auxiliary, founded in 1906 by Estelle Carpenter, one-time Supervisor of Public School Music in San Francisco.

And so this pioneer chorus, begun in the year of the centennial of the United States, sings on. It is a far distant cry from the swallow-tails and the handle-bar mustaches of yester-year to the Concert of today. THE END

etude—october 1956

GLENN GOULD...a début and a personality

[black-and-white portrait photograph occupying upper-center of page: a head-and-shoulders portrait of a young Glenn Gould. He appears in a dark suit and tie, with neatly combed, slightly wavy hair swept back from his forehead. His face is illuminated from the front-left, casting a soft shadow on the right side. He looks slightly to his left with a serious, introspective expression. The photograph is high-contrast, formal, and shows him as slender and youthful.]

by Edward Viets

ALTHOUGH GLENN GOULD, the young Canadian pianist, has been concertizing widely in Canada, having made his début about ten years ago with the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, it was not until last March that Americans were privileged to hear this sensational keyboard artist. The writer was in the audience last March 13, when Gould made his American debut with the Detroit Symphony in the Beethoven Fourth Concerto. Paul Paray led the orchestra in ideally balanced support. Paray is the eminent French conductor whose musicianship and direction have led the revived Detroit Symphony to proud heights.

Managing to find a few minutes here and there to chat with the young artist, I summarized his status as of this date. The publicity buildup has been unprecedented for a classical artist. In this buildup barrage the bare facts have been sometimes inaccurately perceived. I have in mind that within the space of a few weeks, Gould has been described as being a twenty-two, to twenty-three, and a twenty-four year old pianist. Let's start with the exact date. He was born in September, 1932, so he is now twenty-four.

First the idiosyncrasies of a pianist. Gould travels with a special chair; this is a must with him. It is low and I recalled for him that Paderewski had recommended a low seat. He does wear special fingerless gloves—not when playing, of course. He does go through a warm-up involving hot running water. He had the keys of his recently acquired new concert grand specially buffed. "If you get the least bit sweaty, your chances of slipping on smooth keys are too great," he said. There is an occasional difference in the extension of the black keys, and this can be bothersome. Sitting low, with a "very low wrist," this black key extension is critical.

I asked him about his rehearsal with the Detroit Orchestra. He said Paray gave him a curt nod and they went through the concerto with only one interruption. Upon completion, he said, Paray turned and said in effect: "I want to thank you for playing Beethoven's music as I think Beethoven would have liked it played."

The performance itself was a magnetizing one. If you recall the LIFE pictures you'll get the idea. Gould saunters to the piano, giving the impression that he wants to relax more than anything else. He is tall and thin, but not gaunt. Seating himself on his special chair, his contortions begin. They are distracting and confusing at first because one can't help but wonder what all the body movement and arm and hand extension gestures have to do with playing the music. His hair is long and he pulls out a handkerchief and mats it back. He convulses on an orchestral staff while waiting for his own re-entrance. He sings (outdoing Paray) and from my third-row seat I heard a frequent buzzing. I could find no other than the pianist to whom I might attribute this. The completely full house snickered a bit at first, but I don't think they could have been more attentive. There was no applause between the movements but especially significant was the fact that there was none of the throat-clearing and fidgeting and attention interruption that an audience usually displays. Gould won his audience and he held them as few have done. It was a memorable evening.

Gould is the only child of a Toronto couple of essentially Scotch ancestry. He traces distant cousinship to Grieg and also through his mother's side to the W. L. McKenzie of Canadian renown. The family is comfortable, but not wealthy, circumstances. They maintain a summer home in the Muskoka Lakes area of Ontario where he usually spends summer months in music study and composition. His mother was an amateur pianist and his father "fiddled a bit" but that is pretty well in the past.

He played at the piano from the age of three and his mother started teaching him to play in a regular manner. He was graduated from the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto at the age of twelve. That alone is staggering. His mother was his teacher till the age of eleven and Alberto Guerrero from the (Continued on Page 42)

etude—october 1956

Page numbers visible: 14 (left) and 15 (right).
PIANIST'S PAGE

FACTUAL VS. SUBJECTIVE APPROACHES TO PIANO TEACHING

William J. Mitchell

By William S. Newman

(Dr. William S. Newman is a pianist who has performed as soloist and in chamber music in many of the Eastern and Southern States; he is a Professor of Music and Chairman of Instruction in Piano at the University of North Carolina. In addition he composes, is a recognized musical scholar and a voluminous writer, the author of "The Pianist's Problems," among other books, and editor of "Thirteen Keyboard Sonatas of the 18th and 19th Centuries." —Editor, Pianist's Page)

There are two main ways by which a piano teacher (or any teacher) gets his ideas across to the student. He either takes a factual approach, specifying, say, a wrist-action to touch on those eighth-notes, a rise to a climax on that sharp dissonance, or a slowing down of the pulse elsewhere. Or he appeals to the student's more subjective basis, perhaps recalling the pattern of reindeer hoofs here, suggesting a burst of temper at that moment, or illustrating an ebbing of strength there. The first approach depends on reason; the other on imagination or mental attitude.

Past Trends

One supposes that teachers of keyboard music have always resorted to one or the other approach as needed. Certainly the programmatic inscriptions that have appeared from time to time since the earliest keyboard music — for example, the "faire wether," "lightning," and "thunder," in a Fantasia by John Munday, (Fitzwilliam Virginal Book, I, p. 23) — are appeals to the imagination. However, our best sources on past teaching methods, the celebrated keyboard treatises, were almost exclusively factual in their approach. They recognized the need for effective and imaginative performance, to be sure, but were not concerned with imagination as a means of inducing this performance.

Thus, Couperin, in his "Art of playing the Clavecin," mentions "sensitive expression" but proceeded at once to pin it down in objective terms as rhythmic freedom effected by lifting before, or dwelling on a note. Frescobaldi had written similarly a century earlier. The nearest Couperin came to a stimulant for the imagination was a suggestion of "stretching the fingers in all directions" — "will rouse the spirit and engender more freedom."

C. P. E. Bach emphasized several times in his well-known Essay that "a musician cannot move others unless he is moved," a fact vividly demonstrated by himself according to Charles Burney's firsthand report. When it came to analyzing the emotional style (as in Chapter 3 of the Essay), Bach pinpointed its technical ingredients in terms of "loudness and softness of tones, touches, the slide (or an ornament), legato and staccato execution, the vibrato (on the clavichord), the holding of tones, the retard and accelerando" in an objective manner which would do honor to the best style-critical methods of present-day musicologists. One explanation might be the fact that eighteenth-century teachers seem to have dealt only in specifics, leaving the student to do his own generalizing and his own assimilating with regard to the larger and less tangible meanings of the music.

As might be expected, increasing attention to the more subjective aspects of interpretation was paid by nineteenth-century teachers and editors. Those footnotes in the popular Bülow-Lebert edition of Beethoven's sonatas are choice examples. "A true feeling for and reflection of the Master's melodic intentions cannot be learned from didactic preachings; all that can be only of and for the poetic fancy of player and hearer alike." (in op. 54). "Sound—firmly like a trumpet call here at (b. 11), like a drumbeat" (in op. 57). "When a player with the most deeply rooted antipathy to programmatic description sees in the falling pairs of thirds for the left hand the gesture of beckoning with a handkerchief—the tone-picture of a sigh—is intended" (op. 81a).

Especially, the belief grew toward the end of the last century that the timbre of the piano too can be subjectively varied (with the same intensity) by the style of touch. It still crops up from time to time in new school-of-scientific terms in spite of exhaustive findings to the contrary by experts like Dayton C. Miller, Otto Ortmann, Sir James Jeans, and William Braid White. In "Piano Technique—Mythe or Science," Lawrence Schaffer has quoted some past believers in subjective tone control, including

(Continued on Page 59)

[Page number at bottom left: 16 etude — october 1956]

[Right-hand page — record review column and assorted short reviews]

finally Maria Galvany. The works in which they appear are evidently of minor importance in view of the aim of this recording. There are excerpts from "Aida," "Tosca," "Les Huguenots," "La Forza del Destino" and "Dinorah." Taking into account the year in which the original recordings were made, the voices emerge as amazingly clear and pure. (Thomas A. Edison Inc., West Orange, N. J.) — Abraham Skulsky

Mozart: Quintet in E♭, K. 452, for Piano and Winds

Beethoven: Quintet in E♭, Op. 16, for Piano and Winds

Walter Gieseking, piano, and the Philharmonia Wind Quartet (Sidney Sutcliffe, oboe; Bernard Walton, clarinet; Dennis Brain, French horn; Cecil James, bassoon).

One seldom hears a good performance of the Mozart E♭ Quintet for winds and piano. The work is not only inherently difficult as to balance, tempo and sonority, but performers seldom bear in mind that Mozart's instruments, piano as well as the winds, were not the same as they are today.

The Beethoven work, written more or less in imitation of the Mozart, is usually undervalued. While not one of Beethoven's great masterpieces, and on the whole inferior to the Mozart Quintet, it nevertheless contains some fine music and stands miles above most music written before or since for wind-instrument combinations. Its performance also presents great problems of ensemble and interpretation.

The players here are all front-rank virtuosi, but the performances leave almost everything to be desired. Each player is a soloist and the result is not ensemble music. The best indication of the approach is that on the back of the disc one finds two names: Gieseking and Dennis Brain. The other players, one supposes, must be there to provide a background for these two stars.

Both of these works are available in more sensitive, better balanced and in all ways more musical recorded performances. (Angel 35303)

—Richard Franko Goldman

Guitar Music of Latin America: Villa-Lobos, Barrios, Ponce, Barroso, Almeida.

In an age that places special value on volume, quantity, and speed, and shows marked trends toward the dehumanization of music through its intellectualized styles and the use of electronic instruments, there is a peculiar spiritual satisfaction to be found in good guitar music well played. This record will delight music lovers sensitive to the subtle nuances of this very personal instrument and its music. The twelve compositions, all composed in the past quarter century, that Mr. Almeida has chosen represent a fusion of classical, popular and folk elements in varying proportions. The Etude No. 11 of Villa-Lobos with its drone bass and dissonant harmony is especially interesting as an example of contemporary guitar music. Mr. Almeida plays with fine regard for the musical values of each piece and the nature of his instrument. (Capitol P-8321)

—Willard Rhodes

Beethoven: Sonata No. 14 in C-Sharp Minor ("Moonlight")

Beethoven: Sonata No. 8 in C Minor ("Pathétique")

Rudolf Firkusny's first Capitol recording is a fair sampling of his big talents. He is also well recorded.

I have always wondered how best to describe Firkusny. His playing is muscular enough yet his principal virtue is poetic. It seems, at first, that he is a big virtuoso, with a solid clang to his octaves and a powerful ripple to his scales. It turns out that Firkusny would rather woo a passage with a sonnet than proclaim it in somewhat theatrical manner, even though he knows full well how to accomplish the latter. He is then enough to say that these two sonatas are well played, and their freshness is appealing. (Capitol P-8322)

—Arthur Darack

Schumann: Sonata in F Minor Op. 14 (labelled Concerto without Orchestra) is first publisher for apparent reasons.

Schumann: Davidsbündler Dances, Op. 6

A successful performance of this Schumann sonata requires a pianist endowed with a composer's architectural sense and with a special ability to handle the massive sonorities. Friedrich Wührl?ner in a new Vox recording is such a pianist, and it is good to hear such a clear, rich-sounding version of this work. His pianism is thoughtful and entirely free from the vicious mannerisms which sometimes mar performances of this piece. The Davidsbündler Dances, on the reverse side of the LP is another matter. Here Schumann's most subtle and colorful music, and perhaps the most personal music he ever wrote, is somewhat obscured by the player's mannerisms. (Vox LP-19)

—Joseph Bloch

Chopin: 3 Polonaises and 8 Mazurkas

Witold Malcuzynski performs the C Minor, F-sharp Minor and A-flat Major Polonaises and the Mazurkas Nos. 32, 20, 7, 15, 17, 22, 4 and 17.

This Polish pianist can do anything with Chopin except make him interesting. He can play with great bravura, he phrases correctly, and without mannerism about like a box of sick. Celó He has various other abilities that are much prized. By some odd arithmetic they all add up to nothing, unless one is satisfied to admire beautiful but lifeless playing. (Angel 35284)

—Arthur Darack

Chopin: Sonata in B-flat Minor ("Funeral March")

Emil Gilels playing the Chopin B-flat Minor Sonata is powerful, direct, commanding—like a good general. He is also tremendously musical in a simple, unostentatious manner. With all there is an interesting though unsubtle musical personality that comes through. Gilels never seems to have a doubt or cares in the world. He should have at least one admirerer in the same manner as he has none to a doubt his artistic stature. (Angel 35303)

—Richard Franko Goldman

Shostakovich: Three Preludes and Fugues

Nicolai and his orchestra in an interesting recording of works for organ is not new. The prelude and fugue writing of late Bach is represented. The record is worth hearing. (Angel 35308)

—Arthur Darack

Smetana: Quartet No. 1

Smetana's famous "From My Life" Quartet is no stranger on records. What makes this new recording welcome is the fine, restrained, sensitive, and virile performance of the Hollywood String Quartet, and the high fidelity Capitol recording which presents this performance to best advantage. On the reverse side are five Novellettes of Glazunov, a charming series of trifles, to which the Quartet brings the right kind of tone and a highly personalized sense of the highly personalized poet with a fine touch of the essentially Bohemian sensibility of Smetana. (Capitol P-8331)

—David Ewen

(Continued on Page 48)

[Bottom right page: 19 etude — october 1956]

Descriptions of non-textual images:

- Small portrait photograph at top left of the left-hand page: a head-and-shoulders black-and-white photo of a man (captioned William J. Mitchell). He is wearing a dark suit and tie, facing slightly to his right. The photo is oval-cropped and set above the article title.

- Larger black-and-white photograph located near the upper center of the right-hand page: a photo of a man seated at a desk or table, wearing a light-colored suit jacket, white shirt, and patterned tie. He appears to be middle-aged, looking directly at the camera with a neutral expression; his left arm rests on the desk. The background shows part of a room interior. The photo is rectangular with a thin black border.
Here is what I can read from the image. Some of the small-print columns are not fully legible at this resolution; I transcribe the clearly readable text and note where the image is too small/blurred to be certain. If you want a fully accurate, complete transcription of every line, please provide a higher-resolution close-up of the article columns.

Left page (two pages shown; left page header and article)

Darius Milhaud

OPERA
TODAY

Paul Hindemith

Benjamin Britten (r.) with
William Primrose

by Abraham Skulsky

The first in a series of articles on the status of opera and opera composers as it exists at present

ANY STUDY of the operatic field at a given period of its development, must first take into account the creative forces at work at that time. Neither the new production of a two hundred year old masterpiece, nor the religious cult of a nice looking prima donna will ever determine whether opera at a certain epoch is very much alive, confused or simply dead. It is the composer and he alone who with his creative imagination or with the lack of it will be the principal factor in our evaluation of the wealth or poverty of operatic history in any given decade. Thus we can say offhand that today, among the numerous composers who are dealing with opera both here and in Europe, very few appear to be making any valuable contribution to this art form. Fortunately there exist a handful of notable exceptions, composers namely who definitely know what they are dealing with, who seem to understand the difficult rules of creating a successful opera, and above all who are aware that they are living today and consequently use a language compatible in every sense with contemporary thought and ways of expression. While I will later attempt to study in detail the achievements of the new creative forces in our time, I first deem it necessary to summarize the present situation in the creative development of opera and to talk about the general nature of this original form.

In a very general sense, opera can be said to represent an independent art form in that it deals with both music and drama; and the fusion of those elements has been forever the major problem of any composer who has approached opera. Total fusion has rarely been achieved, it must be said, and only a few works can boast of presenting the two elements of music and drama under a truer unified aspect. Many an opera, however, has survived notwithstanding the lack of fusion. When this has

been so it has happened only because of the musical content and never because of its dramatic aspect. There is indeed no example of an opera with bad music which survived because of a first rate libretto. This is an important point which too many American composers forget or ignore. For if so few American composers have written good operas it is because they stress too often the dramatic aspect, and tend to underrate the musical one. Most of the time the music becomes in this case no more than a neutral background and lacks any stylistic individuality in either the harmonic, melodic or instrumental elements. Yet, without those elements an accurate situation can be musically fully portrayed, and this is after all, one of opera's main aspects.

If opera does present itself as an independent art form, it cannot be discounted as an important factor in the development of music itself. At certain periods, indeed, it may have been the main conduit of musical attitudes and creativity. Such is the case with Monteverdi, and again with Verdi and Wagner, who by means of their masterpieces, influenced the musical language itself. This is evidently a characteristic of the romantic period. One would say of any given romantic era. At such periods music does not seem to develop for its own sake, but needs drama as the best natural outlet for such new expression. After Verdi and Wagner, of whom we may also say that they have considerably enriched the musical drama and the beginning of our century did in some measure reflect this situation and stagnation from both the musical and the dramatic viewpoints. The uniqueness of Debussy's "Pelleas and Melisande," the extravagant (Continued on Page 60)

(etude — october 1956)  (page number at left bottom: 20)

Right page (section header and illustrations)

Music in the Schools

There is a large illustrative banner across the top of the right page showing an energetic line-drawing of a school orchestra with many children seated playing instruments, a conductor, and school-related musical activity. A rectangular tilted sign over the drawing reads "Music in the Schools."

Column headings (from left to right above the columns)
BAND
AN AMERICAN IN EUROPE
by William D. Revelli

ORCHESTRA
THE SCHOOL MUSIC
DIRECTOR
AND INDIVIDUAL PRACTICE
by Truman Hutton
Supervisor of Instrumental Music
Division of Secondary Education
Los Angeles City Schools

CHORAL
CHRISTMAS CAROLS
PART ONE, HISTORICAL
BACKGROUNDS
by George Howerton

Left column under BAND (readable portions)

AN AMERICAN IN EUROPE
by William D. Revelli

DURING THE PAST six months, your editor has been privileged to observe and conduct many rehearsals and public concerts of the leading windbands of Continental Europe and England, and to study at first hand, the instrumentation, repertoire and standards of the musical organizations of these countries, which include Italy, France, Germany, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, and England. In addition to these interesting and unusual experiences, much valuable data and information was obtained by means of personal visits to the schools and conservatories and contact with teachers, directors of state conservatories and colleges of music, teachers, composers, and performers, and with instrument manufacturers. Such worthy organizations and manufacturers have ... (text becomes small/blurred here and is not fully legible in this image). In view of the data and information ... (continues; small-print paragraphs below are not sufficiently clear to transcribe accurately at this resolution).

(Continued on Page 52)  (small footer: etude — october 1956)

Second column (start of ORCHESTRA article — readable opening paragraphs)

AMONG THE UNLISTED, but highly important, responsibilities of the school music director is that of motivating and supervising the outside practice of his student musicians. Many of us are so busy with group activities, performances and preparation of groups, that we sometimes forget that the outside practice of the individual player is the broad base upon which group success is built. It is true, more often than not, that with a good school orchestra or band, the "whole is greater than the sum of its parts." The group, as a group, often achieves performance results far above the level the individual members can reach alone.

Individual practice, home practice, outside practice — call it what you will — is the lifetime burden of anyone who plays a musical instrument. It is a burden often borne gladly; but sometimes grudgingly. It can be extremely difficult to make the student realize the value of this practice, even to motivate him to spend the time required. How then shall we, as directors, help achieve this? (the rest of the column continues in small type; portions are not fully legible in this image. Continued on Page 41 is printed near the bottom.)

Third/far-right column under CHORAL (readable beginning)

THE SINGING of songs for the celebration of Christmas has long been a part of the Yuletide tradition. Lawrence Price writing in London in 1675, in his Make Room for Christmas, says:

(Quoted material not fully legible here in the photo at this resolution; the column continues with historical narrative about carols, their use at Christmas, references to Rowland, Childers, "Man William", "My Mad Margaret" etc. The lower half of this column is in small type and unfortunately blurred / too small to be transcribed accurately from this image.)

(Continued on Page 48)  (page number at right bottom: 21)

Non-textual images — descriptions and placement

- Left page top-left: a small portrait photograph labeled "Darius Milhaud." It is a head-and-shoulders photo of a man in a suit and tie, facing slightly to the right.

- Left page top-right: a small portrait labeled "Paul Hindemith." Head-and-shoulders, the subject is wearing a suit and is reading or holding a small object in his hand.

- Left page center-right: a small photograph of two men (one on the left, one on the right) with the caption "Benjamin Britten (r.) with William Primrose." The two men are shown from the chest up; the man at right is slightly behind or beside the other.

- Right page top: a wide, detailed line drawing spanning the top of the page showing a school orchestra or band rehearsal. Many children are seated in rows playing instruments (strings, winds, percussion), a conductor stands at the front, and there is lively activity. Over the illustration is a tilted rectangular sign reading "Music in the Schools."

Notes and suggestions
- The large headings, captions, and opening paragraphs are readable and transcribed above. Much of the remainder of the three dense columns on the right page is printed in small type and is blurred at this resolution; I could not transcribe those parts with confidence.
- If you need a complete, exact word-for-word transcription of every column and paragraph, please upload a higher-resolution or zoomed-in crop of the right-hand page columns (and the remainder of the left-hand article continuation) so I can capture the small-print text accurately.
RADIO‑TV

SOLVING
PRODUCTION
PROBLEMS

How the "Voice of Firestone"
prepares its weekly programs

by Albert J. Elias

(l. to r.) Frederich Heider, producer, gives last minute instructions to Nadine Conner, soprano, and Russell Hammar, tenor (member of Firestone chorus).

THE WHOLE PROCESS by which serious music is presented in concert form on television has always raised problems. Unless Toscanini or someone else whose expressive face and movements make good photography is involved in the proceedings, the camera searches in vain for something interesting on which to focus. As a result, the telecast is rather more than likely to degenerate into simply a visually monotonous concert. As professional as the artists taking part may be, their best efforts can go unheeded by an audience that is seeking wildly to "see" something.

I, for one, have sat through hundreds of just such programs ... out of sense of duty, perhaps, but for the most part out of plain curiosity, and I never have ceased to be struck by the lack of imagination on the part of the producers of these musical but hardly visual affairs. So it is a rare treat when a program like the "Voice of Firestone" (Mon. evening, ABC‑Radio and TV) and an imaginative producer like Frederich Heider come up with the kind of first‑rate entertainment they do for fifty‑two weeks a year. No wonder it has won Sylvania and Christopher awards, and, once again, the Peabody Award as "the best musical program of 1955 on TV."

"No, I'll never do a straight photographed concert," promises young Heider. "While remembering the ear, I try not to forget the eye."

Besides being the oldest coast‑to‑coast program on the air, the twenty‑eight‑year‑old "Voice of Firestone" is the only regularly scheduled serious music program on the television. It has, too, the distinction of being on radio at the same time"—in "simulcast." That fact, indeed, poses the producer with his most difficult problem. For, since the radio audience can only hear what is happening during the dramatic sketch, which Heider uses to frame several of the musical numbers and the staged opera sequences, he has to be careful not to let the action get out of the situation at least not in any kind of gesture, or of in a sound listeners might not be able to follow.

Three sketches or stories which tie together various numbers of the evening's half‑hour, were initiated by Frederich Heider soon after the "Voice" began to be telecast as well as broadcast. "Rather than seeing six or sev‑er‑al spasmodic numbers on the show," he explains, "I thought I owed some kind of allegiance to a public of viewers. So I hit on the idea of using action that would be a springboard for the music. That's all." The story lines have such general themes as "Grandfather Holds A Family Reunion," "A Day In The Life of a Cape Cod Fisherman of Yesteryear," or "Plan Your Vacation."

Recently, in presenting Roberta Peters, her musical numbers were woven into a tale about a movie actress. This offered a good example of what Heider has to face — knowing he has a radio as well as TV audience. For when it came time for the "demand scene" when the leading lady arrives at a Hollywood theater for a gala premiere, the producer had to forego the strictly visual effect of having hordes of the star's fans breaking through a police line to beg for her autograph — and then have the cinema queen make a great gesture of thanks with outstretched (diamond‑laden) arms. Instead, as Heider describes it, "she walked from the limousine to the theater simply to the accompaniment of cheers from her waiting public."

Like the "gentle story‑lines," another innovation of Heider's has been the weekly presentation of fully staged highlights from opera. Sometimes the excerpts will fill the whole of the show. In any event, they are regularly being sung in English. "La Bohème," "Tosca," "Faust" and "Carmen" — all have been heard in English on the translations. More and more people feel the need and it is a musical director of the "Voice of Firestone" studio opera will have an increasingly limited public unless good translations of foreign operas are made available.

According to Heider, the general audience response indicated the public likes hearing whole portions of opera each week — and, what's more, the listeners like it in a language it can understand. The artists, too, he says, are willing, even eager to learn all over again roles they may once have (Continued on Page 50)

etude — october 1956 22

Walt Disney discusses a very important problem with Mickey Mouse.

Singer Peggy Lee records a duet with herself aided by composer Sonny Burke.

Disney introduces his ABC‑TV "Disneyland" Show, "Cavalcade of Songs."

Peggy Lee, writer Ed Penner, and composer Sonny Burke in conference.

DISNEY FUN
with music

The musical background of the Walt Disney productions has much to do with their success.

by Rose Heylbut

ALWAYS A RARE HAND at constructive ideas, Walt Disney is currently devoting a considerable amount of time each week over the ABC‑TV network to the greater interests of harmony. While the Disney programs are packed full of fun, laughter, and topical interest, their deeper lying purpose is to demonstrate the fact that motion pictures and television complement each other instead of functioning as cut‑throat competition. Mr. Disney's corner on harmony bids fair to open a new era in entertainment relations. Also, the programs rest firmly on the harmony of music.

Many of the songs used on these telecasts are familiar Disney favorites since the days of The Three Little Pigs; some are new; all bear the distinctive Disney hallmark. To a large extent, this derives from the unique way in which Disney music is created.

All Disney music stems from motion picture production which means that first emphasis is placed on story value. The initial step in any Disney animated cartoon film is taken by the animation department. A staff of competent artists and cartoonists submit story lines, a lot as written notes, but in the form of drawings. When an idea is accepted (and many more are worked out than are ever used), the cartoon story is again not written but drawn. Characters and incidents, in continuity, appear in a series of sketches which are mounted on picture‑boards all around the studio. When the work has progressed to the point where further details are needed, the words (dialogue) are filled in by the writing staff. The next step is to select the moments of action most suitable to music, exactly as is done in the writing of an operatic score. Each step in the complicated development is supervised and directed by Walt Disney himself.

Walt Disney Productions buys some outside musical material. More important, it maintains a staff of composers and musicians in its Burbank headquarters, who, over the years, have matured out such perennial favorites as Who's Afraid of The Big Bad Wolf?, An Actor's Life, When You Wish Upon A Star, Mister Gaiety, While You Work, Zip‑A‑Dee‑Doo‑Dah, and many more, culminating in George Bruns' Ballad of Davy Crockett. Occasionally, (Continued on Page 53)

etude — october 1956 23

Image descriptions:

Left page photographic image (top center): Black‑and‑white photo of three people in close conversation. On the left a man (identified as Frederich Heider) leans forward with his hand raised as if giving instruction. In the center a female singer (Nadine Conner) looks toward him, smiling slightly. On the right a young male vocalist (Russell Hammar) listens attentively. They appear to be on a studio stage or rehearsal area; clothing is mid‑20th century formal.

Right page, top small photo (upper right column): Black‑and‑white photograph of Walt Disney seated at a desk or lectern with a Mickey Mouse puppet or figure on the desk. Disney is gesturing toward Mickey, suggesting discussion; the setting looks like an office or library with shelves of books visible behind him.

Right page, second photo down: Black‑and‑white photograph of singer Peggy Lee at a microphone in a recording or broadcast studio, with composer Sonny Burke beside her at the equipment. The picture illustrates Lee recording; she may be shown in the act of singing while Burke assists with the technical or musical setup.

Right page, third photo down: Black‑and‑white photograph of Walt Disney at a studio desk or podium introducing the ABC‑TV program "Disneyland" and the show "Cavalcade of Songs." Disney holds papers and appears to be addressing the camera or an audience; studio shelves or background set pieces are visible.

Right page, bottom photo: Group black‑and‑white photograph showing Peggy Lee, writer Ed Penner, and composer Sonny Burke standing together in discussion or conference. They are grouped in a studio or office environment, engaged in collaborative conversation.
Grade 6

Eclogue

ARTHUR SHEPHERD

Tranquillo (d. = 88)

PIANO

mp

poco cresc.

mf

pp

mf

a tempo

poco rall.

Pochiss. più mosso

p poco cresc.

mf

© Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.

24

Poco più mosso (d. = 126)

sub. p

simile <— mf

espress.

espress

mp

f

mp

cresc.

mf

International Copyright Secured

ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956

25

Description of non-textual image:
A two-page spread of printed piano sheet music on slightly yellowed paper. The left page contains the title "Eclogue" centered at the top with the composer name "ARTHUR SHEPHERD" to the right; multiple systems of grand-staff piano notation follow, with clefs, key and time signatures, musical notes, slurs, articulations, dynamic markings (mp, pp, mf, f, etc.), and performance directions in Italian (Tranquillo, poco cresc., a tempo, poco rall., Pochiss. più mosso, etc.). The right page continues with more systems of piano music, headed "Poco più mosso (d. = 126)" and includes markings such as "sub. p", "simile", "espress.", "cres.", and various dynamics. There is a visible center gutter where the book is bound. Page numbers appear at the lower outer corners: 24 on the left, 25 on the right. The bottom margins include copyright and publication lines: on the left © Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co., and across the bottom near the gutter International Copyright Secured and ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956. The notation includes many beamed notes, triplet brackets, tied notes, and sustained pedal/tenuto markings, all printed in black ink.
Extracted text (as it appears on the pages, grouped by approximate location):

Top left page, near the first staff:
p legg.

Various dynamics and directions on left page (scattered through staves):
ff
f
p
espress.
mp
espress.
mp

Bottom left page:
26
ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956

Top right page and middle systems:
mp
pochiss. rall.
espress.
poco cresc.
poco a poco slentando

Dynamics and markings on right page (scattered through staves):
mf
mp
p
pp
ppp

Bottom right page:
ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956
27

Notes on text items:
- The words "espress." and "espress" appear in several places as expressive markings (sometimes with a period).
- "pochiss. rall." appears exactly with the abbreviation and a period after "pochiss."
- "poco a poco slentando" appears spelled as shown (slentando rather than the more common "slentando"/"rallentando" variants in other editions).

Non-textual image description:

- A two-page spread of printed piano sheet music (aged paper with slight yellowing). Each page contains multiple systems of grand-staff notation (treble and bass clefs joined by brace), with standard musical notation: notes, beams, rests, key signatures, time signatures, slurs, accents, hairpins, pedal markings, and numerous fingering numbers above and below notes.
- The left page has five visible systems (staves grouped for piano), the right page has five visible systems as well. The music shows dense notation with arpeggiated figures, rolled chords, and multiple voices. There are many dynamic markings (pp, p, mp, mf, f, ff, ppp) and expressive Italian directions sprinkled through the staves.
- Bottom margins on both pages contain the publication imprint "ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956" (centered) and the page numbers "26" (lower left) and "27" (lower right).
- The overall appearance suggests a mid-20th-century printed piano edition (slightly worn edges, visible binding gutter in center).
Toccatina
(The Wind)

Toccatina, with its breezy energy, is based on a G major scale modified by the addition of an added C#: (the Lydian Mode)

At letter A we find the same scale transposed to F:

and at B it is transposed to Eb:

The harmonies derived from these scales create a dynamic urge which drives to letter C. Here the harmony vacillates between B minor and B flat Major (two bars later). The "wind" finally vanishes in a closing G major tonality. ISADORE FREED

Allegro

PIANO

p

A (circled rehearsal letter)

B (circled rehearsal letter)

a tempo

(p and other dynamic and performance markings appear throughout the score, including mf, p, rit., and pp)

© Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.
28

International Copyright Secured
ETUDE–OCTOBER 1956

ETUDE–OCTOBER 1956
29

Description of non-textual images:
- Two-page spread of printed piano sheet music. The left page contains the title and a short explanatory paragraph at the top with three small musical-scale examples (staff notation) illustrating the scales referenced in the text. Below that is the beginning of the piano score (treble and bass staves) with fingering numbers, slurs, stems, ledger lines, and standard musical symbols. Circled rehearsal letters A and B appear above specific measures on the left page.
- The right page continues the piano score across multiple systems (staff groups), showing many measures of melodic and accompanimental material with fingerings, dynamics, phrase markings, and further rehearsal/cue letters (including a circled C visible in the upper-middle right). The final systems include tempo-related markings (a tempo, rit.) and quiet dynamics (pp). Overall the pages show printed editorial fingerings and standard notation details typical of a published etude.
Grade 4

Fantasy
in D minor

W. A. MOZART
K. 397, composed in 1782
edited by Nathan Broder

Andante

4

8

12
Adagio
(p)

16

from "Sonatas and Fantasies" by W. A. Mozart edited by Nathan Broder
© Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.
30

International Copyright Secured
ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956

20
f

24
cresc.
f p

27
cresc.

32
Presto
cresc.

35
Tempo primo

38

41
cresc.
p
f

ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956
31

Description of non-textual image content:
Two-page spread of printed sheet music (slightly yellowed paper) showing the piano Fantasy in D minor. Each page contains multiple systems of grand staves (treble and bass clefs) filled with musical notation: notes, beams, rests, triplet markings, slurs, ties, staccato dots, hairpins, and articulations. Rehearsal numbers appear in small circled numerals throughout the score (4, 8, 12, 16 on the left page; 20, 24, 27, 32, 35, 38, 41 on the right). Tempo markings visible include Andante, Adagio, Presto, and Tempo primo. Dynamics and expressive markings such as p, f, (p), and cresc. appear near the staves. The pages are bound at a central gutter; page numbers 30 (left) and 31 (right) are printed at the bottom corners. The layout includes editorial markings and fingerings typical of a published piano edition.
Extracted text (as it appears on the pages)

(44)
[Presto]

(45)
Tempo primo
[P]

(49)

(53)
Allegretto
dolce

(57)

(65)

32

ETUDE–OCTOBER 1956

(71)

(75)

(80)

(86)

(87)
a tempo
rallent.

(91)

(99)

33

ETUDE–OCTOBER 1956

Visible musical/dynamic markings (individual small text items visible on the staves)
p
f
pp
dolce
rallent.
a tempo
[P]

Description of the non-textual image content
A two-page spread of printed piano sheet music (grand staves: treble and bass clefs) filled with musical notation: noteheads, beams, stems, rests, slurs, ties, accents, and hairpins. There are many rapid arpeggio/scale passages and repeated-figure accompaniments. Rehearsal numbers are printed inside small circles at the beginning of several systems (the circled numbers listed above). Section headings and expression markings such as Presto, Tempo primo, Allegretto, dolce, rallent., and a tempo appear above or between staffs. The bottom outer corners show page numbers 32 (left) and 33 (right). The footer on each page reads ETUDE–OCTOBER 1956. The layout is slightly aged/cream paper with printed black notation.
Moment Musical

for B♭ Clarinet with Piano Accomp.

Poco Allegretto (♩ = 66 - 69)

RICHARD WALKER

B♭ Clarinet

p delicato

PIANO

p delicato

cresc.

© Copyright 1956 by The John Church Co.

34

International Copyright Secured

ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956

lunga

con forza e misurato

a tempo

p a tempo

cresc.

poco f

mf

poco f

poco f

cresc.

ff

35

ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956

Description of non-textual content:
A two-page spread of printed sheet music on slightly yellowed paper. The left page carries the title "Moment Musical" and the instrumentation line for B♭ clarinet with piano; the composer's name RICHARD WALKER is printed near the top of the right-hand page. The score consists of multiple staves for B♭ clarinet (single treble staff) and piano (grand staff with treble and bass clefs). Musical notation includes clefs, key and time signatures, numerous note groups (including eighths, triplets and sixteenth figures), slurs, ties, rests, dynamic markings (p, mf, f, cresc., cresc., poco f, ff), accents, fermatas and articulation marks. There are occasional tempo directions printed in italics (Poco Allegretto, a tempo, con forza e misurato, lunga). Page numbers 34 (left) and 35 (right) appear at the bottom corners, plus a copyright notice at the bottom left and "International Copyright Secured / ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956" centered at the bottom. The pages are bound in a book with a visible inner gutter and slight shadowing near the fold.
Grade 2½

Dark Night

Andante moderato

LUCILE SNOW LIND

PIANO

mf

L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.
L.H.
R.H.

rit.
a tempo
rit.
a tempo
mf
f
pp

© Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.
36

International Copyright Secured
ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956

ETUDE-OCTOBER 1956
37

Description of non-textual images:
A two-page spread of printed piano sheet music. The score is titled "Dark Night" at the top center of the left page with the composer's name "Lucile Snow Lind" at the top right. The music is laid out on grand staves (treble and bass clefs connected) across multiple systems on both pages. Standard musical notation appears throughout: noteheads, stems, beams, rests, bar lines, slurs and phrase markings, arpeggio/rolled-chord markings, ledger lines, clefs, key and time signatures. Dynamics and expressive markings (mf, f, pp, rit., a tempo) are printed at various places; many measures are annotated with hand indications "R.H." and "L.H." for right and left hand. There are bracketed groups of beamed notes forming flowing arpeggio figures and occasional tied notes. The paper has a slightly aged, off-white tone and the printing is in black. Page numbers are at the bottom corners (36 left, 37 right). The bottom margins also include copyright and publication information (Theodore Presser Co.; ETUDE - October 1956).
Grade 2

Morning Prayer

LOUISE E. STAIRS

Andante (♩ = 76)

PIANO

Fine

D.C. al Fine

Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.
International Copyright secured

Grade 1½

Merry Little Millwheel

BERYL JOYNER

Sprightly (♩ = 120)

PIANO

mf Mer-ry lit-tle mill-wheel sing your song, Turn-ing round so gai-ly all day long.

Mer-ry lit-tle mill-wheel grind the wheat To make the bread we eat.

Turn, turn, Mill wheel, turn,

Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.
38
International Copyright secured
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1956

Mer-ry lit-tle mill-wheel grind the wheat to make the bread we eat. f rit. pp

Grade 1¼

Parakeet's Slumber Song

Quietly swaying

URSULA LEWIS-MAMLOK

PIANO

When stars are blink-ing from the sky, No lit-tle bird-ie a-round will fly.

fly. Qui-et-ly he will sit on his swing, His ti-ny head tuck'd un-der his wing.

Dream-ing so sweet-ly of bells and of seed, Or may-be of a blue par-a-keet?

keet? Qui-et-ly he will sit on his swing, His ti-ny head tuck'd un-der his wing.

slower

wing. p pp ppp

R. H. over

Copyright 1956 by Theodore Presser Co.
ETUDE—OCTOBER 1956
39
International Copyright secured

Description of non-textual images:
- A two-page spread of printed piano sheet music with staves, treble and bass clefs, key/time signatures, noteheads, rests, beams, slurs, ties, fingerings (small numbers above and below notes), and dynamic markings (p, pp, ppp, mf, f, rit., slower, Fine, D.C. al Fine, R. H. over). 
- Left page contains two short piano pieces: "Morning Prayer" at the top (two-staff piano setting) and "Merry Little Millwheel" below (melody with accompaniment, hyphenated syllables under notes for sung text). 
- Right page contains "Parakeet's Slumber Song" arranged for piano with printed lyrics under the melody lines; multiple systems show the parakeet's verses and repeated phrases. 
- The pages show small printed editorial elements such as grade ratings at the top of each piece, composer names, copyright notices, page numbers (38 left, 39 right), and the magazine/date imprint "ETUDE—OCTOBER 1956." 
- Overall the pages have the aged look of a mid-20th-century music magazine (cream paper, slightly darkened edges).
A new orchestra (band) collection
for high or junior high schools . . .
for church pageants . . .
for Sunday School . . .
or lesser experienced adult groups

Although written primarily for orchestra, Play a Song of Christmas can be used just as effectively for band, small ensemble, solo or duet. Each instrumental part contains the melody as well as a harmony part. The string choir is complete in itself, as is the woodwind choir and the brass choir. Thus, it is possible to play these carols by strings alone (or in combination with woodwind or brass choir), by woodwinds alone or by brass alone.

Because of the versatility of Play a Song of Christmas, small orchestras or bands achieve full sonority. Every director can balance the parts to suit his instrumentation. Special attention has been given to strings (no third position in violin part, very little in viola or bass) and to range of woodwind and brass parts.

Ruth L. Zimmerman, who has worked at length with junior and senior high schools as well as amateur adult groups, has included complete program suggestions in her comprehensive Foreword.

Write for free reference copy of Violin part: Dept. E-10.

CONTENTS: Lo, How a Rose E’er Blooming; O Little Town of Bethlehem; Away in a Manger; While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks; Angels We Have Heard On High; Joy to the World; I Saw Three Ships; Bring a Torch, Jeannette, Isabella; The Wassail Song; God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen; Good King Wenceslas; Deck the Hall; Good Christian Men, Rejoice; O Come, All Ye Faithful; It Came Upon the Midnight Clear; The First Noel; Silent Night; Hark! The Herald Angels Sing; Come All Ye Shepherds; Christians Awake; Who Is He In Yonder Stall?; What Child Is This?; Coventry Carol; Here We Come A-Wassailing; Sussex Carol; The Holy City; The Boar’s Head; The Cherry Tree Carol; March of the Three Kings.

THEODORE PRESSER COMPANY
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania

PIANO–CONDUCTOR

PLAY a SONG
of CHRISTMAS

35 FAVORITE CHRISTMAS
SONGS AND CAROLS
IN EASY ARRANGEMENTS

FOR ORCHESTRA

BY RUTH L. ZIMMERMAN

THEODORE PRESSER COMPANY
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania

Prices: Piano-Conductor, $1.50
Parts (Each) 25c

INSTRUMENTATION: Flute, Oboe (C), Clarinet (Bb), Alto Saxophone (Eb), Bb Trumpet, Horn (F?), Bassoon, Trombone, Baritone, Tuba, Violin, Viola, Cello, Bass, Percussion, Piano-Conductor

40

THE SCHOOL
MUSIC DIRECTOR
(Continued from Page 21)

musical, analytical, developmental and productive. It should stretch, or extend, the practicer and it should solidify already learned techniques. It should involve the physical, mental and emotional sides of the individual's nature. And it should result in a feeling of accomplishment; it should contribute to the player's moral well-being.

Planned practice is regular practice, for regularity is an essential of any acceptable plan for practicing. A good plan for outside practice may well resemble a good orchestra rehearsal. The practicer will do well to give the first few minutes of the practice period to warming-up both physically and mentally. In this portion of the practice period it should be borne in mind that, as winds ought to be warmed up slowly, so it should be with the individual. After the warming-up period, as short as it may be, the individual should be ready to tackle some specific problems. There may occur in scale or arpeggio practice, as they may involve tone-production or intonation problems in a solo piece, or they may be any of a dozen different problems in one of the school orchestra numbers. The essential thing is that the student must concentrate and be able to isolate the problem. He must know what the difficulty is, what he is doing, and how to change what he is doing into what is correct. It is in this area that the school director can furnish some guidance, particularly by helping to analyze the problem and by indicating certain steps to take for solution.

The third section of the practice period could well be devoted to more generalized ends. It probably should contain what some have called "playing through" of etudes, pieces, etc. This phase of practice is important in developing the totality of a piece, of gaining a concept of its wholeness, and of learning to play through in spite of minor mistakes along the way. There is little to be gained by just playing—after good habits have been established—for it is here that the student should find their rewards for the careful analytical practice which has gone before.

With students who are fortunate enough to study with good private teachers, the school director may safely leave much of the responsibility for their supervision to the private teacher. For the students who study without such aid, or near the beginning stages, it is essential that they be given the best possible guidance, and that the practice motive be worked toward. The importance of a working plan which will aid the student to the ideal sound and correct mental concept of the music (tone, pitch, architecture, etc.) cannot be overstressed for this is the shaping force in music performance.

Of first interest to the school director is the preparation of school repertoire, but it is indeed short-sighted of him to have his students practice only what they play at school. The growth of individual players is a matter for developmental studies which will include long tones, scales, arpeggios, bowings and tonguings, etudes and solo pieces. It therefore behooves the school director to acquaint himself with the study material for each instrument. He should be able to prescribe a certain set of studies for the individual who needs what these studies will give him. A violinist who needs a bowing problem in one of the orchestra pieces should be referred to the appropriate Kreutzer or Sevcik study. The clarinetist can be helped by suggesting the proper page or pages in Klose or Langey.

Individual outside practice should be an integral part of the instrumental music program. It should be accelerated and it must be given direction by the school conductor. If the school man is able to show each student what to practice, how and when to practice it, and (Continued on Page 42)

TEACHERS ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
PIANO SESSIONS

Read these representative "case history" reports from piano teachers who are already profitably using PIANO SESSIONS materials. Then, see for yourself the most significant step forward in piano education in 25 years.

Mrs. L. B., Palmer, N. Y.
"Kathy, 7, started reading stepwise and skips much faster than students with other books. Supplementary materials added interest. She enjoyed starting chords and playing 'On Top of Old Smoky.' I have changed other students who I would have lost over to this system, resulting in much more interest and smoother playing."

Mrs. M. S., Norfolk, Virginia, reporting on 19 pupils
"Progress has doubled and sight-reading has improved 100% I think."

Sister M. A., Olean, N. Y.
"Because of the type of reading approach learned in these first books, Sandra, 8, never even looks at the keys for so much as the beginning of any of these pieces. Therefore, she is really reading all of the time — not reading finger numbers as some pupils really do when they play other books. I wish I had been taught in this manner."

Miss M. S., Wynnewood, Pa., reporting on 17 pupils
"Children who have not studied before love the books, love to practice and have accomplished more than all of my former pupils."

Mrs. K. E., Peoria, Illinois
"I have two classes in 'Twenty Tunes' books, one class of 5 girls and a class of 6 boys. They are having lots of fun with the course and are learning lots."

Miss L. S., Seelree, Kentucky
"Creates interest and enthusiasm. Stirs the imagination. Very thorough. Makes the process of learning and teaching music a pleasure."

Mr. P. J. S., Shenandoah, Pa.
"I have been using 'Piano Sessions' exclusively with all beginners ages 6 to 10 for the past two years. My pupils have averaged 10 lessons a week with complete home practice. It is the most amazing system I have ever used. My students enjoy the practice at home more than any other method. I have not lost 1 pupil who was with me at the beginning of the course. I have had a couple of kids start through and in two weeks they are playing and sight-reading the simplest pieces. This course is the greatest thing that ever came into my hands. After pupils get through the first book they can play pieces for any beginner I have ever used."

To learn more about PIANO SESSIONS see the teacher's descriptive folder and sample pages. Enclose 25c for folder and sample pages, or send for free reference copy of Book I (one free copy to teachers only). Please send complete information about PIANO SESSIONS and a free reference copy of Book I to:

Piano Sessions Dept. 3
Shawnee Press, Inc.
Delaware Water Gap, Pennsylvania

Name _______________________
Address _____________________

Shawnee Press inc.
Delaware Water Gap, Pennsylvania

41

Descriptions of non-textual images on the pages:

- Left page, central vertical advertisement panel: decorative band of small round Christmas ornament icons at the top (five ornaments across), beneath them a horizontal row of stylized evergreen tree silhouettes (seven trees). The ad title "PLAY a SONG of CHRISTMAS" appears large, with additional small pine-tree silhouettes below and to either side of the author credit. Small circular emblem (possibly a publisher mark) appears twice left and right of the author line.

- Bottom left of left page: a small solid black horizontal oval containing the publisher name "THEODORE PRESSER COMPANY Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania".

- Right page, boxed advertisement at right: a bold heading "TEACHERS ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT PIANO SESSIONS" inside a heavy rectangular border. At the bottom of that box is a small order/coupon area with blank lines for Name and Address.

- Lower right corner of right page: small Shawnee Press logotype and address block, set against a black background bar.

Note: I have transcribed all clearly readable printed text from the pages and described the visible graphic elements and layout. Small portions of the instrumentation list and a few song titles in the contents were partly obscured or in very small type; I rendered them in context to preserve meaning.
PIANO TUNING PAYS
Learn this Independent Profession
AT HOME

Our patented TONEOMETER simplifies learning and checks your ear at once. Develops the trained ear necessary to be a successful tuner or technician — from home. Course carefully prepared by men experienced in teaching and in practical tuning. Write for free booklet: giving facts and references.

THE NILES BRYANT SCHOOL
1511 Stockton Blvd., Dept. A
Sacramento 20, California

INCREASE YOUR INCOME
TEACH MODERN PIANO by note

Classical teachers everywhere are turning to the modern SYSTEM because of its clarity, speed and lasting results. Recondition your students for modern teaching—make serious money while you teach. Send for free booklet.

THE CHRISTENSEN METHOD
Dept. E, Box 2246, Hollywood 28, Calif.

Your VOICE!
Results Guaranteed

FREE BOOK
How to develop your voice through the most modern methods. How to sing — how to teach singing. Included: records, songs, exercises. Free demonstration lessons.

WOLF-FINK, INC.
Dept. 72 — 145 W. 36 St., N.Y. 18

ACCORDIONS
— ETC. —

FREE CATALOG — Repairs on everything in the musical instrument field. Everything musical — 1,000 things, at the low prices you expect. Buy with confidence.

JAY STEMERMAN'S DISCOUNT HOUSE
8822 38 St., Woodhaven 21, N.Y.

SING TOGETHER
A book of enjoyable Songs for Young Folk

Harry Robert Wilson
Consolidated Music Publishers, Inc.
240 W. 55 St., N. Y. 19

TO AUTHORS
seeking a publisher

If you have a book, cantata, or music of any kind for publication, describing it briefly will give you immediate attention. Free evaluations. Address.

VANTAGE PRESS, Inc., 120 W. 31 St., N. Y. 1
In Calif.: 6525 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood 28

William Lewis and Son
30 E. Adams St. — Chicago 3, Ill.
VIOLIN SPECIALISTS
OUR NEW OLD INSTRUMENT CATALOG NOW AVAILABLE
Publishers of "VIOLINS & VIOLINISTS"

viola for violinists
A comprehensive and practical course by
Julius K. Supplee
VARITONE, INC.
545 5th Ave., N. Y. 17

the result to work toward, he will have performed a great service for his groups as well as for the individual concerned.

The student must learn to analyze, to isolate a difficulty, to break it down into its parts and then place it back in context. He must learn that musical patterns recur again and again, and that the first step toward mastery is the recognition of them, no matter what the key or context.

Enjoyment of participation in instrumental music comes when the individual can begin to concentrate on making music. As the individual moves from the crudeness of his early attempts to play his instrument to a more precise realization of the music, he becomes a medium through which something of great value is recreated. Through his practice, he has learned not only about his instrument or music, but about himself. He brings more and more to the group as he practices by himself. As he develops his technique he develops his personality, his worth to himself and his fellows.

THE END

GLENN GOULD
(Continued from Page 15)

ages of eleven nineteen, and since then his study has been solo.

Guerrero, a Chilean with European musical background, is given much credit by Gould. "He is a remarkable musician, and particularly valuable were his ideas on the technical approach to music. He has some novel ideas on technique," said Gould.

The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation likewise deserves much credit for fostering Gould's career. The CBC is a government supported radio and TV network and Gould has appeared on their programs since he was seventeen.

In chatting with him about his interests, he said that he was an inveterate reader, particularly of esthetics. His formal schooling stopped when he completed high school.

But composition. "Ah, that is a big thing for me," he said.

Gould was one of the stars of the music presentation at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival last summer. He played some works, he played in the Ode to Napoleon Bonaparte (sextet) of Schoenberg, and he had the public premiere of his own string quartet. He also wrote the program notes.

I heard a good bit of the rehearsing of the Octette (string quartet, female narrator, and piano) and some of the rehearsing of his string quartet. His pianism was impressive, particularly in the sextet. Playing without score, he picked up the piano part at any place, was aware of any discrepancy in any other part, and coached and coaxed the soprano narrator most effectively.

I asked him about his practice procedure. He said he was a great believer in "armchair practice." He may practice about three hours a day at the piano, with increase up to six by the time in preparation for a concert, but he probably adds several hours of score study away from the piano. "And then there's composing," he said, implying that that too was part of practice.

THE END

WAULFINGER RIEGGER
(Continued from Page 11)

Moines, Iowa, to become head of the theory and the celebrated departments of that institution. It was at Drake that Riegger began to compose in earnest, and that he began to feel that composition, rather than teaching, was his real métier. He was still thoroughly orthodox in his taste and technique, and dedicated himself as being a "thorough Brahmsian," as this point in his career certainly his first large work, the Trio in B Minor, Opus 1, confirms this statement, and it was in any case conservative enough to win the Paderewski Prize for its composer. His next few works also followed this pattern, and they were successfully performed and generally admired. At this time Riegger left Drake University to come East, where for a time he taught at The Institute of Musical Art and at the Ithaca Conservatory.

A revolution in Riegger's musical thinking occurred at this time. For three years, from 1923 to 1926, he did not compose at all. Quietly, without making any public pronouncements or turning his back on his earlier works, he reconsidered his entire musical position. The end of this period saw Riegger emerge as a fully-fledged "modern" composer, with a larger orchestral work in archaic style and the radical Study in Sonority, which was the first of his experiments in new technique.

In 1926 he wrote in new idioms. He wrote the violin and piano sonata, the Prelude for orchestra, and several chamber works which showed this new bent. The Study in Sonority especially attracted attention and led to further work along similar lines. His approach to composition became increasingly concerned with timbre, sonority and the orchestral color. He was particularly interested in the possibilities of rhythm and meter free from conventional accentuation.

Riegger continued to experiment and to enlarge his vocabulary. He produced works which were at once intellectual and vivid in orchestral color. He believed that the study of earlier masters was essential, but that their work must be transformed by the contemporary composer into something fresh and valid for present-day audiences.

With this new technique he gradually gained recognition; his works were performed in many American cities and he began to exert a considerable influence upon younger composers and teachers. His position in the American music scene was firmly established, and he became known as one of the leading figures in modern American composition.

(Continued on Page 93)

VIOLINIST'S FORUM
Intonation Difficulties
by Harold Berkley

"I have a problem on which I need some help. This pupil, while he plays very well in tune in the first and third positions, cannot seem to play in tune in the fifth. . . What do you suppose could be the trouble? I'd appreciate any help you can give me—Miss M. L. Co., Illinois.

This is quite a puzzling question, especially as you do not say whether the pupil is aware of his intonation lapses in the fifth position. As he plays well in tune in the lower positions, I am going to assume that he has the better than fair ear and is as disturbed over this poor intonation as are you. The cause of the trouble can be in the left hand position or in the violin itself.

Let us consider the left hand first. How is it shaped when he is playing in the fifth position? Is the thumb to be seen projecting above the G string beside the neck? If so, it is probably the answer to the problem.

For playing in the fifth position or higher, the tip of the thumb must be in the curve of the neck, and the hand brought sufficiently around so that the knuckles are almost if not quite at right angles across the strings from the fingertips. In other words, the knuckles should be brought forward until they are about level with the fingers. As a general principle it can be said that the (correct) shaping the hand takes in the first position should be maintained up to the seventh. Above the seventh position, except in the case of a large hand, the fingers are pushed forward ahead of knuckles in order to reach the higher notes. This is feasible, because it is rarely necessary to play across three or four strings above the seventh position.

But if the fingers are pushed ahead of the hand in the fifth, sixth or seventh positions, intonation trouble is very likely to arise. This may be the cause of your pupil's lack of accuracy.

Another cause may be that he has not yet realized how much closer the intervals are in the fifth position than in the third. In this case some pattern exercises based on Ševčík Op. 1, Book III, Section 9, would be helpful.

But I think it more than likely—assuming the lad's ear is keen—that the trouble lies with the violin. Are the fifths true in the fifth position on all three pairs of strings? The chances are they are not. And if they are not, then your pupil has little hope of playing in tune. On many violins, the fifths are true in the first and even the third position, but woefully out in the fifth. It is a matter of the curve of the fingerboard in relation to the curve of the bridge: if the curves do not match, the fifths will be false.

Then, of course, the strings themselves, for they have to be true. It is my experience that few teachers are careful enough on this point. The teacher should test the fifths on every pupil's violin at least once every two weeks. Youngsters perspire a lot, and that quickly makes a string go false. At the first sign of a bad fifth the teacher should identify the false string and have the pupil change it, or change it himself at once.

The average student cannot hope to play in tune if his strings are false. The very talented student will often do so because he subconsciously adapts his fingering to the false string. But he is only laying up later trouble for himself, for he is actually playing out of tune in order to sound in tune. That is another reason why old teachers should be very careful to see that his students' violins are properly adjusted and true in fifths.

Tone Balance and Other Questions

". . . Can you help me on the matter of tone balance? . . . I recently had a trio of students disappointed in a performance of the Bach Double Concerto because their carefully rehearsed balance was upset. After practicing in my average-sized studio, they had to play in a large auditorium, empty except for judges and a few other contestants. . . . They could not hear each other, and in spite of many careful rehearsals, this particular performance was very disappointing. . . . Could you suggest how I could prepare for the following emergencies: (1) The unexpected use of a microphone; (2) The surprising carrying qualities of one violin more than another; (3) The large auditorium; (4) The unexpected carrying quality of the piano tone? Obviously, these difficulties are overcome by most performers simply by having at least one rehearsal in the hall to be used. But young students rarely have this privilege, so any suggestions you can make will be deeply appreciated."

— Mrs. D. M. F., British Columbia

You have brought up an interesting problem, for no two halls, whether empty or full, have the same acoustic qualities. And every hall has different properties when full than when it is empty. Very often a tone that is small and limp in an empty hall will be full. In spite of this well-known fact, many artists insist on "trying out" the hall before playing the program in it. Any good hall does this purely imaginatively.

One thing you can do to prepare your students for unfavorable circumstances: see to it that your teaching studio is slightly sub-resonant. A tone that sounds well, or a balance of tones that sound well in a somewhat under-resonant hall, will nearly always sound well in a hall — even an empty hall. When I furnished my present studio twenty years ago, it took six weeks of maneuvering with drapes and wall hangings to get the precise degree of sub-resonance I wanted. The trouble and time this took has long since paid for itself.

To answer your questions specifically: (1) Why not get a tape recorder and have your pupils make fairly constant recordings on it via the attached (Continued on Page 50)

Image descriptions:
- At the top of the right-hand page there is a small black-and-white portrait photograph of an older man shown from the chest up. He is seated and appears to be holding a violin or bow across his lap; he wears a dark suit and has a serious expression. The photo is a small rectangular inset aligned with the article heading.
- On the left page, several small boxed advertisements include graphics: the "PIANO TUNING PAYS" ad shows a rectangular electronic device (labeled TONEOMETER) with dials and a handle; the "Your VOICE!" ad includes an illustration of a singing mouth or stylized head; the "ACCORDIONS" ad displays a small image of an accordion; the "SING TOGETHER" ad has a simple block of type with no prominent illustration; the "William Lewis and Son" and "viola for violinists" ads are mainly typographic with small decorative elements.
Studio forum

TEACHER'S ROUNDTABLE
Maurice Dumesnil

Memory and Sight Reading

Q. My teacher tells me that I am gifted with such a fine memory that after I have played a piece twice at most I have it memorized. Thus I feel very little sight reading practice and consequently am poor in that direction. Is my memory to blame for this? What can I do to improve my sight reading?
— V. N. — North Dakota

A. I cannot see any connection between sight reading and memory. They are two distinct issues and have to be dealt with accordingly.

To improve your sight reading the best way is to read. But this must be done with considerable care. Easy texts at first, and slowly. Then more difficult ones, and faster. There must be no stumbling, no wrong notes, no errors in counting. This may sound difficult or even impossible, but it is not if one sight reads slowly enough.

Concerning memorizing, may I refer you to the following past ETUDES:

"Memorizing and Memory," Teacher's Roundtable, April 1954.

"Musical memory, when and where," feature article, February 1949.

"Memorize quickly," Teacher's Roundtable, April 1947.

Teaching Solfeggio

Q. I would appreciate some information regarding the teaching of Solfeggio. (Mrs.) C. B. T. O. — Ohio

A. Anyone who is well grounded musically can teach solfeggio, using such books as those by Danhauser and Lemoine (Lemoine, Paris, publisher) which start very simply and grow progressively in difficulty.

At first the pupils can limit themselves to spelling the notes while testing time. Then when they are sure of the values they sing the notes, while still beating (Continued on Page 47)

VIOLIN QUESTIONS
Harold Berkley

An American Maker

L. H., Pennsylvania. Julius Horvath was an American maker who died a few years ago. He was not prolific, and there are not many of his violins to be seen. In these circumstances, each instrument would have to be evaluated on its own individual merits of workmanship and tone quality. Sorry I cannot give you more precise information.

More Advice on Bowing

"I have followed your advice, with very good results, as to teaching bowing to beginners. That is, the long bows. But I am rather at a loss as to how to go on from there. Should I immediately give my pupils the Wrist-and-Finger motion or the frog or should I lead them to it gradually?" F. W. K. — Ohio

I am glad that what I have written in these columns has helped you so much with your beginners. If you are able to get them to change the bow fairly smoothly at the frog, using the Wrist-and-Finger Motion, you are giving them a fine start toward good bowing and good tone production.

As regards further exercises, go on to half bows—frog to middle, and middle to point. In the frog-to-middle bowing, be sure to see that the pupil changes the bow at the middle with his fingers as smoothly as he does at the point. And in the middle-to-point exercises try to get the pupil to touch the string with the bow at the middle, having the forefinger down in the middle position. This will help him to regulate the bow. Some of the exercises used by Kreisler are good. Get a good book of technical exercises and follow them so that your pupils will continue their progress from the beginning to the end.

ORGAN AND CHOIR QUESTIONS
Frederick Phillips

Q. At present we have a two-manual organ at our church with the following stops: GREAT—Open Diapason 8, Dulciana 8, Chiara, Gedackt 8, Flute d'Amour 8, Piccolo 2. SWELL—Tremolo, Salicional 8, Vox Celeste 8, Gedackt 8, Flute 4, Nazard 2 2/3, Fifteenth 2, Oboe 8, Horn 8. PEDAL—Bourdon 16, Lieblich Gedackt 16, Flute 8. Usual couplers. The Gedackt is duplexed with the Flutes. There are 3 ranks of pipes. Have you any suggestions for new stops? The Horn has a very displeasing tone; could this be "traded in" on a new stop?
J. H. L.

A. In the matter of adding stops the amount of space available in the organ chamber is an important factor, and for this reason it is well to have the advice of a responsible organ builder, who would in any case probably be called upon to do the installation. We are therefore sending you the names of a few builders who would be glad to assist you. We might, however, suggest the possibility of adding either a Great Mixture II ranks or a Gemshorn or a Trumpet 8, or both. The Trumpet could take the place of the Horn which you wish to discard. If the Horn tone is very displeasing, it is hardly likely that a builder would be much interested in a "trade-in"; it would certainly do no harm to revoice the proposition.

Q. Please give me an estimate and cost of parts for the building of a pipe organ. I intend to use as much and as small material as possible, and to buy some parts from various organ builders. How would I go about obtaining a console and other parts that cannot be made by the college professor will help in the building of the organ that I...(Continued on Page 47)

etude—october 1956

ORGANIST'S PAGE

Starting the New Church Season
by Alexander McCurdy

Red cross life-saving manuals, which tell what to do when a swimmer has been hauled un-conscious from the surf, offer, along with instructions for rolling victims over a barrel, artificial respiration and so forth, one cardinal rule: DON'T GIVE UP.

I wonder if we organists ought not to take this same motto and paste it up somewhere so it is clearly visible from the organ-bench.

Here we are practically at the start of another season. Those of us whose churches curtail their activities during the summer months have had leisure for study and reflection. In summer there is time for practicing, a luxury the working organist can hardly afford once he is in the swing of winter activities. Summer is the time to brush up on technique, to look ahead, to plan music for the coming season. In summer we have a detachment not easy to manage once the season gets under way, when we are living from hand to mouth, so to speak, from one Sunday service to the next.

I wonder how many of us are coming back from our summer vacation with new ideas for the service and new music which we are eager to teach our choirs?

It is of course easy to say that what was good enough for last year is good enough for this. To fall to such an apathetic attitude is a great disaster, for it will make the organist poor all 'round: not only the music is affected, but the singing of the congregation works to the lowering of church attendance when such a helpless attitude of the service prevails. This is following the line of least resistance. When in this frame of mind some critic has said to me, "The life-saver's motto, 'Don't give up.'"

In taking the line of least resistance, we are not progressing. We are not even holding our own. In the arts there is no such thing as standing still. When we are no longer making progress, we are retrogressing.

There is nothing so stimulating as learning new music ourselves and teaching it to our choirs. If we make a regular practice of doing so, it renders us better organists, better choirmasters and better musicians generally.

In addition, we have an obligation to the composer of our time. If no one performs his music, what incentive has the composer to write it?

It is true that the contemporary composer has created difficulties for himself by choosing to write in an idiom which makes severe demands upon both performers and listeners. It is also true that a worthless piece is no less worthless because it is dissonant or written in harsh chords. Junk is junk, in whatever style or idiom.

On the other hand there are works which, however formidable they appear at first, are richly rewarding when one takes the trouble to study and understand them.

In the case of church music, it is up to us organists to keep up with what is being published in our field, to separate the sheep from the goats, musically speaking, and to give a carefully-deserved public hearing.

If we don't take the trouble to do this, who will?

A good way to make a start is to see to it that you are on the mailing list of every publisher, thus receiving copies of new works as they are published. It has been my experience that publishers are delighted to cooperate. Some even make available recordings of their new publications. Send for these by all means. If you are acquainted with composers, or with others in whose judgment you have confidence, invite their suggestions for new works which have proved successful.

For myself, I have made mental notes on a number of works which I intend to try out with my own choir during the coming season. One of these is a Lenten oratorio, "Contemplation on the Crucifixion," by Frank Scheer (H. W. Gray Company). The work was given a marvelous performance at Columbia University, just prior to the opening of the A. G. O. convention in New York this summer, with the composer conducting and with Clarence Snyder at the organ.

It is a marvelous work. Although not easy, it well repays the time spent in rehearsing it. I know of one choir which rehearsed the piece for four months last year (the work was at that time still in manuscript) and performed it with telling effect during the Lenten season.

"The Incarnate Word," by Robert Elmore, has been in print for several years, but I believe there are organizations who have not yet had the pleasure of discovering it. Here is another work which is rewarding for the organist to prepare and for choir and soloists to sing.

Mr. Elmore also has written some new settings of the Psalms which are extremely interesting.

Another work which ought to receive many hearings during the coming season is Samuel Wright's newest work for chorus and organ.

Every organist should have sample copies of the Presser publications known as the Westminster Choir Service. The music in this series is prepared in conjunction with Dr. John Finley Williamson and the Westminster Choir College of Princeton. Every composition published has had the advantage of being tested by the Westminster Choir during its tours across the country.

Now among the works in this series, which are of uniformly high quality, I find especially striking the setting of "O Be Joyful," by Ainslee Cox, and "Once to Every Man and Nation" by David Stanley York. Any choir will find these to be worthwhile additions to its repertoire.

Any new piece by Richard Purvis is worth investigating. He writes music which is of fine quality and usable as service music. (As most of us can testify from experience, the works of many composers are not always both.)

An interesting new set of pieces, by various (Continued on Page 48)

(Left page, bottom-left corner: 44. Right page, bottom-right corner: 45.)

Descriptions of non-textual images:
- Large sketch at top left: a simple line-drawn illustration of a grand piano seen slightly angled, with an adjustable piano bench in front of it. To the left of the bench is a small music stand. The drawing is loose and stylized, serving as a decorative header for the "Studio forum" title.
- Small portrait at top right: a black-and-white head-and-shoulders photograph of a middle-aged man (Alexander McCurdy). He wears a dark suit and tie; his hair is short and receding. The portrait is a formal studio-style headshot used to illustrate the author of the "Starting the New Church Season" article.
GULBRANSEN

america's smartest piano fashions

Music Teachers! Musicians!
Here is a new achievement...
in purity and brilliance of tone, power of volume, permanency of touch... in a small piano—only 37" high.
It's equipped with the wonderful, new September Scale — the Gulbransen exclusive miracle scale and the reason for the glorious deep-dimension tone.

[Photo of young girl head-and-shoulders at piano]

CONTEMPORARY
WRITE FOR FREE BROCHURES
SPECIAL TEACHERS' DISCOUNT
GULBRANSEN COMPANY
Dept. E, 2050 N. Ruby St.
Melrose Park, Ill.

TEACH EASIER
with MUSIC FLASH CARDS

FOR TEACHERS — The fundamentals of music teaching simplified for classroom use. Sixteen cards 6" x 3" in clear folder. 69c postpaid.

FOR BEGINNERS — For the child just starting to read music. Sixteen cards 6" x 3" in clear folder. 69c postpaid.

FOR ADVANCED — For advanced theory, sight-reading and harmonic studies. Sixteen cards 6" x 3" in clear folder. 69c postpaid.

DEK-O-MUSIC COMPANY
1126 S. La Cienega Blvd., Hollywood 46, Calif.
DEK-O-MUSIC is a division of DEK-O-CUTE, Inc. Nationally distributed since 1948.

CALL TO WORSHIP
carillon bells & chimes
Chimes starting as low as $98.00
Write for free booklet and prices
MAAS-ROWE CARILLONS
Dept. KC, 3015 Casitas Ave., Los Angeles 39, Calif.

ANNOUNCING...
A New Publication

[small illustrated ad showing a dancing figure; some small text illegible at this reproduction; price shown as $1.50 and publisher line partly legible: [illegible] PRODUCTS, INC.]

the
ACCORDION
Edited by Theresa Costello

TRANSCRIBING PIANO MUSIC FOR ACCORDION
by F. Henri Klickmann
as told to Theresa Costello

(F. Henri Klickmann, well known composer, arranger and editor and member of ASCAP, has done much work in all fields of music arranging. Ed. Note)

How do I go about transcribing piano music for the accordion? is a question asked by many advanced accordion students and aspiring professionals. Here are some suggestions offered by Mr. F. Henri Klickmann, well known composer, arranger, editor, who has had years of experience in this particular field.

When considering making a transcription of a piano composition for the accordion, one must first carefully analyze it to determine if it can be transcribed without distorting its original character. Because of the mechanical difference between the piano and accordion, certain liberties in transcribing must be allowed. For example, we must consider the limited range of the right hand keyboard of the standard 120 bass accordion and the system of reed sounds of the left hand keyboard.

The key of the original composition must be retained, if possible, taking liberties only where the right hand part exceeds the limits of the right hand accordion keyboard; in which case, transposition of one or two octaves lower will be necessary, and perhaps some of the extremely low passages raised an octave, should they extend beyond the first F below middle C.

The left hand accordion keyboard is rather complex, due primarily to its intricate system of reeds. However, when this system is thoroughly understood, it becomes less difficult to adapt the left hand piano part to the accordion. In a fast tempo, a bass solo or bass and other beats may be substituted for a series of chords, than it would be on the piano; thereby necessitating reiteration in fingering.

As a substitute for reiteration, either single notes or chords in the piano part, the best possible effect for the accordion is the bellows shake. This effect, when used for a series of single notes, eliminates the use of alternating fingers on a given key, such as: 321, 4321, etc.

Accordion registration must be used discreetly, remembering the limitations of its tone to speak; a miniature portable organ. Therefore, in soft passages the left hand registers without the low reed will be used to gain occasionally be indicated, and full accordion for passages demanding a greater degree of power. As to right hand registration, instrument tone and knowledge of the repertoire should be indicated according to the particular piece.

When an arpeggio or broken chord appears in the left hand piano part, it is advisable to use a single chord on each beat as a substitute. If the tempo is not too rapid, the bass may be added to the chords. In a slow tempo, where there is a succession of chords (no bass) in the left hand piano part, a single chord solo, or combination of two or three chords, may be used. A combination allowing richer harmony is preferable, because of the fact that if the fifth interval is not included in the diminished and diminished 7th chords of the former, for example, using C as an illustration, to complete a C7 (dom.) chord, use CM (or C7 or C bass plus E) for CM7; use C M or C bass plus E. For Cm7, use Cm or C bass plus Eb, etc. For extended chord patterns, such as Cm (dom.), use CM (or 7) plus Gm or C bass plus Gm (3rd omitted). For C11 (dom.) use CM plus BbM or CM plus Gm and BbM or C bass plus Gm and BbM (3rd omitted). Many more combinations are possible in the keys.

On 9th and 11th combinations, the 3rd interval is generally omitted because of dissonance.

In a sequence of chords only, it is not always advisable to use a bass and chord accompaniment.

Since many of the old classics were not edited according to modern standards, the arranger is compelled to make his transcription with regard to phrasing, pedaling, dynamics, etc. The larger the arrangement the less will the tempo be governed by the pedal indications in the piano part. However, the usual pedaling is indicated, it will have to be used with discretion for sustaining harmonies.

Fingering, as any indicated in the piano part cannot be strictly adhered to on the accordion. This is understandable because, not only are the right hand keys of the accordion narrower than those of the piano, but the hand, when playing in the extreme upper section of the keyboard, is in a slightly different position; thereby necessitating a reiteration in fingering.

As a substitute for reiteration, either single notes or chords in the piano part, the best possible effect for the accordion is the bellows shake. This effect, when used for a series of single notes, eliminates the use of alternating fingers on a given key, such as: 321, 4321, etc.

Accordion registration must be used discreetly, remembering the limitations of its tone to speak; a miniature portable organ. Therefore, in soft passages the left hand registers without the low reed will be used to gain occasionally be indicated, and full accordion for passages demanding a greater degree of power. As to right hand registration, instrument tone and knowledge of the repertoire should be indicated according to the particular piece.

Since the above has been confined to keys and old masters, a few words might be said about popular and production compositions. These are rarely transcribed, but are arranged in simplified form for concertized. In some of the so-called novelty-accompanists, only the left hand part is played, the right hand, except for a few instances, remains silent.

If the piano composition is not suitable for the accordion, it is advisable either to transcribe in part, or to note a suggestion for changing, or to resort to an entirely new arrangement. By the latter is meant a change of key (if necessary), harmonic simplification, rhythm changes, and enough substituting to give the full effect and almost entirely altering the bass structure; even resorting to a change in harmony, especially where there is a transition or a sudden change of key.

THE END

TEACHER'S ROUNDTABLE
(Continued from Page 44)

The lessons are so well graduated that even the youngest pupils acquire a fine legato and phrasing. In addition to the regular printed music each lesson contains a short progressive exercise and rhythm study, increasing in complexity as the course advances. The course has plus and minus signs for phrasing, rhythmic accents and slurs and is an ideal pedagogical text for the teacher.

Satisfaction of the students is shown by the many letters of appreciation that we received from the pupils and parents. It teaches the fundamentals of tone and rhythm, gradually enlarging the musician's knowledge of melody and harmony, as well as developing finger facility.
etude — october 1956

[page number 46 at lower left]

A Perfect Left Hand Technique
with the
YEHUDI MENUHIN
SHOULDERREST
for Violin and Viola

[photo of a man (three-quarter profile) demonstrating attachment of a shoulderrest to a violin that rests on his left shoulder; he holds the violin in playing position]

Relieves the important and vulnerable muscles of the neck and shoulder from strain and tension. Encourages development of a free and rapid vibrato.

Fits any shoulder, cannot scratch your instrument, easy to attach or detach, light weight, fully adjustable.

Don't miss this greatest boon since the chinrest. The Yehudi Menuhin shoulderrest is extremely light, weighing only 60 grams, but extremely strong. Accounts for enormous improvement in quality and volume of tone. Aesthetically one piece with you and your instrument which can be pushed and pulled without losing the shoulderrest or the instrument, in the basic limbering up exercises. Each part of shoulderrest is interchangeable and replaceable. Descriptive folder available.

Violin Model $7.00
Viola Model $7.50

Order from nearest distributor
REMBERT WURLITZER
120 West 42nd St., New York 36, N. Y.
or
KENNETH WARREN & SON
28 East Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4, Ill.

WE HAVE THE HONOR OF INTRODUCING TO THE UNITED STATES
Recorders by Fehr

"The Stradivarius of Recorders"

RECORDERS BY FEHR are superbly handcrafted. Modeled and fashioned in the time-honored manner from willow wood, carefully seasoned and finished in natural tone. Each instrument is hand tuned and voiced by Anton Fehr who is one of the most noted recorder craftsmen of Europe.

Recorders by Fehr are used by conservatories and schools in Europe and are gaining great favor among American schools and music studios.

Consorts of Four Instruments (soprano, alto, tenor and bass) furnished in plum or cherrywood on special order only.

[photograph of a recorder]

OMEGA MUSIC CORP., 19 W. 44 ST., NEW YORK 36, N. Y. (Dept. C-1)
Please send me your descriptive folder and price list.
Name ___________________________________
Address ___________________________________
City _____________________ Zone ________ State _________
(please print)

Prices from $5.00

[page number 47 at lower right]
etude — october 1956

Notes on non-textual images:
- Left page top: small portrait photograph of a young girl (head-and-shoulders) placed near the GULBRANSEN headline; she appears smiling, hair curled, wearing a light-colored blouse.
- Left page center: illustration/photo of a piano labeled "CONTEMPORARY" beneath the GULBRANSEN ad.
- Left page lower: small illustrated advertisement showing a dancing figure and a seated person; details and some small print in this ad are not fully legible at the resolution of the provided image.
- Right page top: photographic image of a man demonstrating the Yehudi Menuhin shoulderrest on a violin; he is shown in three-quarter profile attaching or holding the violin to his left shoulder.
- Right page lower: photograph of a wooden recorder (wind instrument) shown horizontally.

If you would like, I can provide a higher-magnification crop of any specific ad or passage to attempt to read the small or partially illegible lines more precisely.
At last!
An AUTOMATIC
Church Bell at a real
BUDGET PRICE

The Schulmerich
"Arcadian"
SERVICE BELL & HOUR TOLL

Entirely NEW, completely AUTO-
MATIC bell instrument for even the
smallest church. Pre-set clock auto-
matically rings bell at scheduled times,
and it may be used manually for special
services. Tolls the hour or may be used
for any desired period of ringing.
Motion-driven swinging or tolling bell
has push-button start; automatic stop.
Manual start and stop control. Push-
button pull-in feature. Strike switch pro-
vides manual swinging or tolling bell.
It is very small for any installation.
Record-player included. Any church or
parish can afford the "Arcadian". For full
details write:

SCHULMERICH CARILLONS, INC.
1226A Carroll Hill, SELLERSVILLE, PA.
For a list of dealers write: Dept. E

NEW RECORDS
(Continued from Page 19)

Following is a list of additional new
recordings:
Springtime Suite MGM (E 3296)
South German Baroque Organ Music
VOX (DL 223)
The Cadet Chapel Organ VOX
(DL 210)
Greig: Lyric Suite, Op. 54 VOX
(DL 9840)
Borodin; Balakirev; Mussorgsky; Cui
VOX (PL 9530)
Scarlatti: 12 Sonatas VOX (PL 9940)
Sonatas For Violin Solo ANGEL
(35305)
Ravel: Complete Works for Piano Solo
ANGEL (3541 55)
Concert Piano Encores CAPITOL
(P 8338)
Johann Michael Haydn; Joseph Haydn
UNICORN (UNLP 1019)
Johann Michael Haydn; Joseph Haydn;
Karl Stamitz UNICORN (UNLP 1020)
History of the Dance Form, Vol. 2
UNICORN (UNLP 1027)

MUSIC READINESS
Program by Sr. M. Xavier,
O.S.F., Mus.M.

The Music Readiness Program,
widely acclaimed and endorsed
by prominent piano pedagogues,
is adapted to various ages.
It introduces the child to music via
piano studies, first instruction,
simple piano playing readiness activi-
ties, games, and note-learning games.

My Music Primer Book . . . . . . . . . $1.00
My Music Color Book . . . . . . . . . . $1.00
My Music Study Book . . . . . . . . . . $1.00
My Music Note Book . . . . . . . . . . $1.00
My Music Name Book . . . . . . . . . . $1.00

THE SERAPHIC PRESS
1501 S. Layton Blvd., Milw. 15, Wis.

[small boxed ad at lower left with circular graphic 3/4? — partial text:]
Beginners don't need Stools, but
if you desire to save money, you
can buy one of our new student
stools. Stools are strong, smart,
and comfortable. Ask for details.
VARI-TONE, INC., 155 W. 27th Ave., N.Y. 17

Robert Whitford
Founder-President
International Piano Teachers Association
has devoted his entire professional career
to the interest of the piano teacher.
He is available for clinics, lectures,
demonstrations and for private consulta-
tion. For information write:

ROBERT WHITFORD MUSIC EDUCATION BUREAU
3020 W. 2nd Ave., Miami 37, Fla.

THE NEW CHURCH SEASON
(Continued from Page 45)

...composers, "Sequentia," is published by
J. Fisher & Bro.
Leo Sowerby's new hymn-tune pre-
ludes (H. W. Gray) are useful for post-
ludes, and also are musically of real
distinction. These pieces which will
richly repay the time and study ex-
pended in mastering them.
If one has not already done so, one
should have his name put on the mail-
ing list of St. Mary's Press, 145 West
46th Street, New York City. This is a
non-profit organization which brings
out a great deal of music, by both
American and European composers,
which is not available anywhere else.
John Huston's "Meditations on the
Seven Last Words of Christ" were per-
formed from one end of the country to
the other last season. Despite their many
successful performances, it has amazed
me to find how many organists have not
heard of "Meditations." They are
worthy of careful study.
As a matter of fact, why not make it
a project this year to investigate and
perform the works of American com-
posers? Although the busy season is
upon us, one can always snatch a few
minutes to examine new music.
If one learns a new piece, and is en-
thusiastic about it, the enthusiasm will
be transmitted to his choir. There need
be no fears on that score.
So long as we have the Binghams,
Britains, Elizers, Hustons, Sowder,
Bix, Wrights and others, we should do
everything possible to encourage them,
and reap for ourselves, our choirs and
our congregations the rich benefits of
their talent. THE END

FOLK MUSIC
(Continued from Page 10)

Such events were recorded in villages
shortly after they happened, and some-
times printed on broadsides, large pieces
of cheap paper which were sold on the
streets. Eventually the broadsides died out
and the ballads became the stock-in-
trade of folk tradition, taking on all the
qualities of true folk songs. One can
trace a great deal about American history
and culture from these ballads, and,
indeed, Bruce Buckley believes that he is
best fitted for school use, to be used in
teaching lessons in history.

Honor your partners, corners address
Promenade, go the first two beat ---
All promenade, honor the lead, etc.
[excerpt of square-dance call text]

This is a favorite square dance call
of Richard L. Castner, a folk dance
teacher, and square dance caller of
Indiana University. Castner is not over-
optimistic about the future of folk
dancing in the United States. Although it
is still well known in its original envi-
ronment, folk dancing is losing in many
places. Folk dancing is being taken up by
college groups; it is becoming revived
largely through the work of folk clubs
and festivals which are now taking place
in many places from Maine to San Diego. But
if the original spirit is to be preserved, it
is necessary for us to be careful about the
dance teachers who are interested in the
wide social side of folklore, and such
people can do their part in practical
application. THE END

CHRISTMAS CAROLS
(Continued from Page 21)

physical motion or not.

During the fourteenth century the
association with the Christian religion
became more apparent and in the
following century it seems to have
become definitely associated with
Christmas. In the sixteenth century
there was an impulse to add to the
season carols with definite local color
and the custom in pre-Reformation
times was enjoyed more or less commonly
in a great many places.

It is commonplace to state that the
first Christmas carol was sung in
St. Francis' day, during the life of St.
Francis of Assisi. By the thirteenth
century the custom had been well
established and the singing of carols
on the anniversary of the Nativity,
in commemoration of the birth of
the Saviour, by the singing of
processions appropriate to the occas-
ion. For a fuller historical development, some look
to Francis of Assisi, the beloved saint
of the thirteenth century.
The Franciscan movement has been
credited with the introduction of the
crèche and many of the associated
customs of the Nativity. The bringing
of the shepherds to the manger, as well
as the portrayal of the ox and ass,
and all the paraphernalia of the stable,
is ascribed to the influence of the
Franciscan movement. The songs of
the Nativity were sometimes sung in the
vernacular, and were a part of the
folk-life of the people. Over the years
many of these carols have been changed
and adapted to later tastes. (Continued next month)

A SELECTION OF NOTABLE PIANO PUBLICATIONS BY
MARVIN KAHN
Composer - Pianist - Teacher - Author

[small black-and-white portrait of Marvin Kahn – head-and-shoulders photo of a clean-shaven middle-aged man in suit and tie, looking at the camera]

Beginner's Guide To Popular Piano Playing
Progressively graded text for the beginning student whose
interest lies in the popular or modern field of music. $1.25

Chord Construction And Hints For Popular Piano Playing
Progressively basic, breaks, improvisations and embellishments to interpret popular songs. $1.25

Modern Styles And Harmonic Construction For Popular Piano Playing
Develop your individual style while learning modern interpretation, harmonization
of the melody and transposition techniques. $1.25

Practical Technic For Popular Piano Playing
Technical problems illustrated through original studies and modern compositions
in graded sequence. Develops style and interpretation. $1.25

Breaks, Fillers, Endings and Introductions For Popular Piano Playing
Teaches you how to create and execute practical breaks, fillers, endings and introductions,
illustrated by unusual chord progressions, various rhythmic patterns and melodic
subtleties. $1.25

Modern Melodies For Popular Piano Playing
Illustrates modern rhythms, idioms and various styles of bass associated with the
popular song—especially arranged for the early intermediate pianist. $1.00

Theory Papers (In 2 Books)
Teaches the piano student the rudiments of harmony, stressing chordal progressions,
keyboard harmony drills and ear training. Book I—Beginner's Grade Level 65c; Book II—Intermediate Grade Level $1.00

THE "VANDRE" INTERLOCKING PLASTIC KEYBOARD
A plastic piano keyboard with raised black keys. Each keyboard has two octaves,
interlock as many keyboards as desired. Price—$1.50 each keyboard.

MILLS MUSIC, INC., 1619 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.

the exciting new
Starck
PIANO-ORGAN
COMBINATION

[black-and-white photograph of a spinet-style console instrument showing a keyboard with folding cabinet top, control stop tabs above the keys, a panel and a bank of organ-style stop tabs and a set of foot pedals beneath; instrument finished in medium wood tone]

A complete
PIANO -
A complete
ORGAN
IN ONE
superb Spinet
instrument

Now you can have both piano and organ music in your home,
in as compact and little as the spinet piano! And you'll be
surprised how little it will cost you. For your piano and organ
melody or piano exercise books by the tens, with full range
of organ stops and percussion, including "vibra" and vibrato effects.
No other combination offers so many thrilling musical effects and tonal colors at
such a low price. Can be played by pupils at any age and for beginners! There is
even an earphone plug-in for silent practice!

SO EASY TO OWN—A small down payment puts this
instrument in your home. Payments as low as $6.00 or $7.00 per week.
See your Starck Piano dealer for demonstration and terms.

For a delightful piano-organ combination in the
true spinet tradition—write for complete catalog.

H. A. Starck Piano Co. 234 SOUTH WABASH AVENUE, CHICAGO 4, ILLINOIS

etude—october 1956

[page numbers lower corners] 48 (left) 49 (right)

Notes on non-textual images:
- Top-left ad contains a small stylized illustration of a church bell with musical notes and a plaid-patterned clapper housing.
- In the Marvin Kahn advertisement there is a small black-and-white portrait photograph of Marvin Kahn: a head-and-shoulders image of a middle-aged man wearing a dark suit and tie, facing forward.
- The Starck piano-organ advertisement includes a black-and-white photograph of the instrument: a spinet-style console with an exposed keyboard, control tabs above the keys, a center cabinet with a wood finish, and a set of organ-style foot pedals; the instrument is shown from a slight right-front angle.
A NEW ECKSTEIN BOOK... WITH A TRULY SIMPLE CHORD FORMULA!
PLAY IT NOW
24 Melodies for Piano
Using I, IV, V CHORDS
Arranged by
MAXWELL ECKSTEIN

Contains 24 skillfully-arranged melodies for piano. Using a simple chord formula, (I, IV, V), all of the melodies can be played with maximum ease by both children and adults. Original compositions by the author are included in this diversified array of appealing piano pieces.
o 0401 Price .85

BUY IT NOW!
CARL FISCHER
INC.
62 Cooper Square, N. Y. 3, N. Y.
BOSTON • CHICAGO • DALLAS • LOS ANGELES

DAVID CARR GLOVER'S
new series of piano books
for the young student

Six delightful volumes
of familiar and original
tuneful teaching material for
the beginning and early
intermediate pupil.

It's time for

[ ] COWBOY MUSIC
14 tunes of the wide open spaces

[ ] BOOGIE WOOGIE
11 easy, exciting modern pieces

[ ] WALTZES
13 graceful melodies in 3/4 time

[ ] FOLK MUSIC
20 songs to play and sing

[ ] CLASSICS
18 treasured themes of the masters

[ ] HYMNS
23 beloved songs of faith
Price 80¢ each

Special Offer!
Get any ONE of the above books—Mail this ad and only 25¢ to cover handling and postage at once to:

HANSEN PUBLICATIONS, Inc.
110 West 57th Street New York 19, N. Y.

VIOLINIST'S FORUM
(Continued from Page 43)

microphone. It will help them tremendously to hear themselves; it will make easier the solving of balance problems; and will soon get the youngsters over "mike-fright."

(2) If one violin carries better than another, there is not much you can do about it except to advise your other students to buy more resonant instruments. But are you sure it was the violin to which the credit was due, or was the player perhaps using a more clinging bow-stroke and a stronger left-hand grip? These two qualities will enhance the carrying power of any violin, and many talented youngsters will unconsciously use them when they are playing in a large hall.

(3) There is no way by which you can prepare a pupil for playing in a large auditorium except by having him play in one as often as possible. This can produce a vibrant tone in your — I hope — sub-resonant studio, and can play in the same way in the auditorium, this tone will be satisfactory. But not many young students have the poise to do this. They usually are so quickly upset by the small, thin tone they seem to be producing that they either force

the tone or else begin to play too lightly. Either way, the tone will not carry.

(4) The unexpected carrying power of the piano to an again somewhat than only experience can adjust; if your pianist was unaccustomed to playing on a wide empty stage in a large empty hall, she probably "pushed" the tone more than usual. Or was the lid of the piano up? The lid of a grand piano should never be raised for playing into a crowded auditorium.

Why important auditions should be held in empty auditoriums is a mystery to me; but they usually are— even though it is not fair to the contestants. I would suggest that you bring it clearly home to your pupils, months before the next auditions that on the stage they will not sound at all like they are used to hearing themselves, that their tones are likely to seem pinched, and that the difference between forte and piano will be, to them, almost imperceptible.

Then, too, you might find out if it would be possible for them to practice once or twice in any sizeable auditorium in town. This would be a big help.

THE END

SOLVING PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
(Continued from Page 22)

studied in the opera's original language. Jerome Hines, what's more, has gone so far as to make some of his own translations.

Besides the fact that they are in English, some of the success of the program's moments from opera surely rests in the fact that the prima-baller are careful to present, only as Heidre puts it, "the tried and true opera singing." Virtually every one of them has had experience in opera— whether it is Eleanor Steber, Nadine Conner, or Leonard Warren, at the Metropolitan; Robert Rounseville at the New York City Opera; or Dorothy Warenskjold, at the San Francisco Opera.

In addition to these familiar voices and faces, the program will present for the first time this year Jean Madeira, Blanche Thebom, Richard Tucker, and Giuseppe Campora. Frances Wyatt— a soprano picked from the chorus, recently, to substitute for the ailing Mimi Benzell— had such a remarkable success, moreover, that she will again be starred during the forthcoming season.

Fredric Heider has made a point, of course, of introducing new concerted artists to show his faith in both chorus, of which Miss Wyatt is a member. Repeatedly, he uses one of the

eight to sing with the evening's soloist. A bass may be called upon to join Miss Warenskjold and Mr. Sullivan in a trio from "Faust"; a tenor may join Miss Conner in a duet from "La Bohème", or a soprano join Ferruccio Tagliavini in a passage from "La Traviata." More and more, too, he plans to use members of his chorus, and one of whom he believes has "a voice of solo quality." Backing up this whole assembly of singers is the orchestra conducted by the veteran maestro, Howard Barlow, and consisting of musicians of caliber. With men like Oscar Shumsky, first violinist, and Harvey Shapiro, first cellist, it is heard in out-of-town engagements and in recordings, as well as on the Firestone Hour.

To get this production— involving soloists, chorus, guest performers, sets and costumes— on the air takes a thoroughly professional production staff. And young as Fred Heider is, the native of Milwaukee has produced everything from musical revues and quiz shows in the Atlantic City box. He is the first to add the word "air" to the production. Heider is now only one

is the Monday evening simulcast. "The merry-go-round begins early Tuesday morning," as Heider puts it. The first rehearsal is purely for the purpose of timing the show, and cutting or extending the piece or that were necessary. The next Monday comes around, everybody is "on camera" from the camera in the morning till the end of that evening's show. It is a long, hard day, as was the case the production staff will tell you, but everything runs like clockwork because of young Heider's efficiency. Two or three weeks before the scheduled show, the producer begins blocking rehearsals. What he wants to achieve— and his ideas for sets to the designer, his suggestions for music to Barlow, and then issuing to everyone a complete description of what he and the staff have planned the show to look and sound like. And, in the words of the Peabody citation, the "Voice of Firestone" should be commended for "the exquisite beauty and high quality of its program structure," and for making available "the world's greatest artistry in music and drama" with the "highest sensitivity in program standard."

While Fred Heider is overseer of the program, he thinks of himself more as "a father of the whole shebang. And when I'm asked what I, as a producer, do, I explain that my job is mostly parental. First I create the idea, and then take care of it as best I can." What amazes many who know how opera stars likes to sleep late, is the way this parent gets his "children" to jump out of bed on Monday morning and arrive at rehearsal, as he says, "if not always glamourously, always gloriously on time."

For this season, the program has scheduled soprano Rise Stevens (Oct. 1), baritone Thomas L. Thomas (Oct. 8), soprano Dorothy Warenskjold (Oct. 15), bass Jerome Hines (Oct. 22), soprano Jean Fenn and baritone Theodor Uppman (Oct. 29). Also presenting leading artists this month, the "Telephone Hour" (Mon. evening, NBC Radio) features mezzo-soprano Blanche Thebom (Oct. 1), baritone Igor Gorin (Continued on Page 53)

Learn More... Earn More
thru HOME STUDY in Spare Time

Your music can open the door to bigger opportunities if you continue to train. Decide now to better your skills and broaden your musical knowledge. Competition is keen, even in the smallest communities. Prepare to meet it anywhere; and take advantage of all the wonderful opportunities that are open in all branches of your profession.

Opportunities and Better Income

New forms of entertainment, TV for example, require entirely new musical techniques, but will provide "Big Time" positions in musical entertainment for those sufficiently qualified. Experience has taught that the demand for well-trained musicians is constantly increasing. Many schools and colleges now require a Bachelor's degree for permanent positions. More and more government and civic organizations request music for general community use. Radio and TV, record companies, schools, churches, professional entertainers offer opportunities in big and small towns.

Start NOW toward Greater Success

Get the training every musician wants—to be able to teach, conduct and arrange; and to advance into positions of greater responsibility. Know the modern, up-to-date techniques of today's music leaders. Courses include:

HARMONY—Written to give development of modern harmonic practice and technique. Includes harmonic progression, dissonance, chord structure, modulation and related topics.

ADVANCED COMPOSITION—Especially designed for the advanced student. Includes practical exercises in orchestration and arranging.

VOICE—For the individual singer. Practical methods in voice production, breath control and repertoire.

SIGHT-SINGING—For the development of accurate sight-reading and aural skills.

ARRANGING—Includes modern arranging techniques for small combo and big band as well as orchestral arranging.

HISTORY—A modern course including the history of music from early times to the modern era with emphasis on stylistic development.

CHORAL CONDUCTING—For choir leaders and music directors. Practical methods for rehearsing and presenting choral works.

(Additional course listings and brief descriptions are printed in the ad.)

DIPLOMA or Bachelor's Degree

Become affiliated with a school that has earned the recognition of thousands of successful teachers and professional musicians for over 50 years. We are leaders in music education by home study. Many graduates receive public school positions and other prestigious employments. Send for the free booklet that describes complete courses of instruction leading to the Degree of Bachelor of Music.

Turn Spare Time into Profitable Study!

Many adults, while engaged in other work, have completed courses and obtained diplomas or degrees by home-study. Flexible study schedules permit steady, practical progress in spare hours.

CHECK COURSES THAT INTEREST YOU and mail coupon for free information — without obligation.

University Extension
CONSERVATORY

(Registration/Coupon)
UNIVERSITY EXTENSION CONSERVATORY, Dept. A-660
2000 South Wabash Ave., Chicago 16, Ill.

Please send free illustrated folder and information on the courses checked below:

[Multiple checkboxes for courses and instruments, including (as printed):
PIANO—Teacher's Course
PIANO—Student's Course
VOICE—Student's Course
VOICE—Teacher's Course
HARMONY
ADVANCED COMPOSITION
ARRANGING
ORCHESTRATION
CHORAL CONDUCTING
PUBLIC SCHOOL MUSIC
HISTORY
CHURCH ORGAN
ACC. (Accordion) (Popular)
VIOLIN
CELLO
GUITAR
SAXOPHONE
FLUTE
CLARINET
TRUMPET—CORNET—TRUMPET?
TROMBONE
FRENCH HORN
OBOE
BASSOON
DRUMS / PERCUSSION
DOUBLE BASS
(And additional instrument/course options)]

(There is a paragraph asking respondents to check course(s) and mail coupon for information, then fields to fill in:)

Name_________________________________ Age_____ Sex_____Phone______________

Address________________________________________________________

City________________________________ State________ Zip__________

Are you teaching now? ______ If so, how many pupils have you? ______

Do you hold a Teacher's Certificate? ______

What is your musical experience? _________________________________

Would you like to obtain the Degree of Bachelor of Music? ______

(Additional small-print enrollment details and instructions appear in the coupon area.)

(End of visible text in coupon.)

Non-textual images and descriptions:
- Left-page small advertisement illustration: A book cover image labeled PLAY IT NOW showing a piano keyboard and sheet-music-like design.
- Beneath it a small cartoon-like stack of six little book spines/drawings in the David Carr Glover ad, showing stylized children/characters and book covers.
- The center and left pages are primarily columns of printed article text with no other images.
- Right-page large advertisement: a portrait photograph of an older man (head-and-shoulders) at upper right of the ad. Down the left side of the ad are small line-drawing illustrations showing musicians: a violinist playing, a singer holding sheet music, a pianist at the keyboard, a guitarist, a conductor leading a choir (or orchestra), and a seated female figure with a book at the bottom next to the "University Extension Conservatory" logo.

If you would like, I can crop and enlarge the lower-right coupon area for a more precise, word-for-word transcription of every small checkbox label and the tiny printed fields; in the current image some of that small type is difficult to read with complete certainty.
AN AMERICAN IN EUROPE
(Continued from Page 21)

“Music for every child; every child for music,” and which is distinctly America’s music program and not to be found in any other nation on the face of the earth.

The study of music in Europe, for those who wish to follow it as a profession, is limited to only the highly talented. They are accepted as students to the state schools of music only after they have successfully survived the rigorous and demanding examinations and competitions as conceived and conducted by the faculties and administrators of the state conservatories and colleges. For example: The Santa Cecelia Academy in Rome accepts only fifteen students in each of the following fields: strings—violin, viola, cello, string bass, piano; woodwinds—clarinet, flute, oboe, bassoon, saxophone.

Composition and Conducting

The students are selected by means of examinations and competitions. Likewise, the Paris Conservatory accepts only twelve students in each of the above mentioned categories. Entrance examinations require the student to present himself before the faculty on a specified date, prepared to perform (1) from memory a concerto of his own choice, (2) sight-read as directed by faculty, and (3) prepare an assigned composition and perform it before the jury within a week following his initial appearance.

As we can readily see, such entrance requirements obviously eliminate many less-gifted students and place a premium upon entrance qualifications. Another feature of the Paris Conservatory plan is that the student must achieve a “first prize” within three years of residence, or is otherwise ineligible for further study at the school. Should he earn a “first prize” prior to his third year of eligibility, he has automatically finished his course and is therefore no longer eligible for further class study, although he may continue as a private student.

Another unique and interesting feature of the Paris Conservatory curriculum, is that of enrolling the students in classes of like instruments. Classes are limited to a maximum of six students and no individual lessons are scheduled. Classes are composed of students of similar proficiency and abilities. The class meets for four periods weekly, each period being of three hours duration, for a total of twelve hours weekly.

The student is required to attend all sections, unless excused by the teacher, and to actively participate in them. This plan of instruction has many advantages

over the thirty-minute or sixty-minute weekly private lesson plan. Firstly, it provides the opportunity for each student to be in the presence of his teacher and to receive his assistance and guidance for a total of twelve hours weekly, instead of our traditional thirty-minute or one-hour lessons. Secondly, it enables the student to evaluate his progress and capabilities with those of his colleagues, thus spurring the less-competent or ambitious on to greater application. Thirdly it provides a laboratory for the student to broaden his repertoire, since he has the opportunity to “study” a composition before it is actually assigned to him. Further advantages include opportunities for ensemble performance, such as duos, trios, quartets and quintets.

In addition, class instruction at this advanced level assists the student in acquiring many excellent teaching techniques by observing the instructor’s comments and procedures with various members of the class. Also, the class method is certain to be of great assistance in developing the student’s poise, confidence, and competitive spirit. Particularly is this of importance, since the old phrase “one learns alone” from my experience and observations of the classes visited, it is obvious that the class plan of instruction as conducted in the European schools is of many advantages over our private lesson plan. Also, I am fully cognizant of the difficulties which would be presented if we were to attempt to adopt such a program; however, it would seem to be worth considering, for I am confident that we and our students would profit from its adoption, even though it may require certain modifications.

Another interesting and surprising observation was the inadequacy and state of preservation of the buildings, facilities and instruments of the European conservatories and academies of music. With rare exception, they are far inferior to those in America. In fact, even before the war many of them were sadly in need of repairs and clearly show the results of neglect.

It is interesting and worthy of note that the European conservatories and colleges of music are concerned only with the students’ musical qualifications; hence, there are no academic requirements. As a result, the student must procure his general education elsewhere, providing the extra time and means to do so. Therefore, we are confronted with the old and familiar adage. “The Specialist and the Generalist.”

However, we must bear in mind that the European student of music who expects to follow it as a profession, is

a highly talented music student, one who has given evidence of considerable intelligence, and frequently is well schooled in fields other than music. It was also quite obvious to this observer, that these students who were aware of the necessity of acquiring a general education, were doing just that, and they were in the vast majority. We must also consider the rigid requirements of the grammar and secondary schools of the European countries.

In all schools visited, instruction in the musical branches was of superior quality. Faculties are composed of artist performers and superior teachers; many are internationally famous soloists who have forsaken the concert stage for the teaching studios.

Tuition costs are comparatively negligible, since all of the state conservatories and academies of music are maintained by the government.

Emphasis is placed upon performance and progress, rather than semester hours or grades.

In the Conservatory of Amsterdam, still a different program for evaluating the student’s musical talents has been adopted. The plan is as follows: The student is permitted to elect one of the following three major programs:

1. Teacher Program—Here emphasis in training is placed upon pedagogy and teaching techniques. Although performance is also given much emphasis, it is not the sole criterion for the successful passing of program requirements.

2. Ensemble Program—Here the student’s program is designed for preparing him for a career as an ensemble player rather than as a soloist.

3. Soloist Program—Here the student must give proof of outstanding performance and genius and talents.

The Brussels, Amsterdam, and Paris Conservatories courses are open to the public and witnessed by large audiences. I was very much impressed with the artistic performances and skill demonstrated by the many talented young performers participating before the jury or examiners in all of the concerts attended.

None of the conservatories visited, many of them in existence for centuries and whose reputation and standards have paved the musical careers of the most famous artists and their faculties, include the great masters of composition, conducting and performance.

On the other hand we are a much younger nation and are just now learning to approach the music of the older world with enthusiasm—we shall achieve our own American qualities, as young as the generation of musical students in our high schools. I hope that each day brings us closer to our goal. It is indeed one to be cherished.

THE END

etude—october 1956 (page number 52)

WALLINGFORD RIEGGER
(Continued from Page 42)

words yet produced by an American composer. In it Riegger made conscious use of the device of the “tone-row,” and consequently the use is entirely his own, with little resemblance to usual twelve-tone practices. Riegger, in fact, employs two tone-rows in his works, and it is the opposition of these two lines that gives the work its tension.

From 1933 to 1941 Riegger composed almost exclusively for the modern dance and many of these scores have not been played or for concert use. Excerpts from such, as the Finale of New Dance, however, became well known in a number of versions.

Beginning with 1941, Riegger has produced a succession of imposing and important works. His Duo, for Piano and Cello (US), String Quartet, The Third Symphony, and Canto and Fugue for Strings, a Sona-

(Continued on Page 63)

Easy New Teaching Pieces

ALBERT ROZIN — Bouncing Broncos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Fiesta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
I Caught A Fish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Two Little Pieces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40

MARGARET SOUERS — A Gay Adventure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
The Mountain Meadow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40

SCOTT WATSON — Appalachian Song & Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
Spiritual & Banjo Reel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40

NEW ALBUMS
Suite for Piano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vivian Beaumont 1.00
Dancing Around the World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mischa Portnoff 1.00
A Summer in Switzerland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Margaret Souers .75
A Suite of Moods (med. difficulty) . . . . . . . . . . . Trude Rittman 1.00

Write for sample “On Approval” copies to

CHAPPELL & CO., INC. 1270—6th Ave.
New York 20, N.Y.

(FOR PIANO SOLO printed vertically at right edge)

DOLLAR WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED FOR 3 MONTHS
Request a trial subscription to Editor's Musical Monthly

1
London Musical Events

(Article listings and brief notices follow; small print listing of concerts and events, including names and dates of performers and orchestras.)

SOLVING
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
(Continued from Page 51)

(Oct. 8), soprano Irmgard Seefried (Oct. 15), pianist Jose Iturbi (Oct. 22), and coloratura soprano Lily Pons (Oct. 29).

Two of the nation's top-flight orchestras return to the air also this month, the Boston Symphony, under Charles Munch, resumes its weekly Monday night series (NBC-Radio) on October 8, and the New York Philharmonic-Symphony resumes its Sunday afternoon series (CBS-Radio) on October 21, with Dimitri Mitropoulos conducting.

A figure of a highly different nature—Cole Porter—will have his fortieth anniversary celebration as one of the month's most popular composers with a television revue (Sat. evening, Oct. 20) at one hour and a half, that is, of his best-loved hits.

THE END

DISNEY FUN WITH MUSIC
(Continued from Page 23)

(Mr. Disney accepts suggestions from persons familiar with his productions and one of the funniest small items he used recently was a gag on movie-writing. [Text continues with anecdotes and commentary on Disney's productions and music; smaller print continues across the column.])

CONE-ROYT MUSIC LEARNING AIDS, Dept. E, or thru Dealers
285 LAFAYETTE ST., NEW YORK 12, N. Y.
Creative teaching materials from
"HOW TO HELP CHILDREN LEARN MUSIC"
by Carola Cone & Royt (HARPER $3.50)

PIANOFORAM-7 oz. resilient Practice Keyboard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $8.00
(roll up, carry anywhere, develop muscular strength, technique)

LEARN-TO-READ Music Paper & Staff Puzzle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3.25

GAME OF FINGERBOARD (play like Parchesi), learn string instruments, ear-training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2.00

"PLAY IN ALL KEYS" (piano work book) & SCALE CHARTS . . . . . . . . . .$2.75

MUSIC SYMBOL PARADE, KEYBOARD PUZZLES, CONDUCTING FRAMES . . . .$4.00
(add 10c for postage. Send for complete catalogue)

The MASTER KEY
Chromatic Pitch Instrument

PREFERRED BY MUSIC DIRECTORS
PROFESSIONAL MUSICIANS—TEACHERS

3 MODELS: MK1-Scale 1 to F   MK2-Scale C to C   MK3-Scale Eb to Eb

13 hand-tuned special bronze reeds precision-tuned to A-440—full chromatic scale. Heavily nickel-plated case—resilient rubber base—padded case with lift-out center. The ultimate instrument for accurate pitch reference and practice.

ASK YOUR DEALER OR WRITE US.

WM. KRATT CO.
988 Johnson Place, UNION, N. J.

(Trademark and product images accompany this ad)

PAGE FOOTERS: etude—october 1956 (page 53 at right)

Descriptions of non-textual images on the pages:

- Near the top right is a boxed advertisement titled "Easy New Teaching Pieces." The box contains a list of short piano teaching pieces with composer names on the left and prices on the right. The box is plain typographic content with a thin border.

- Below that boxed ad is a vertical promotional area advertising "London Musical Events" with a large numeral "1" and the phrase "DOLLAR WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED FOR 3 MONTHS." This block contains small-printed promotional copy and is laid out in magazine advertisement style.

- Further down on the right column is an advertisement for Cone-Royt Music Learning Aids. This ad includes product names and prices in a boxed layout and a small line drawing at the top right of the box that looks like a stylized, simple line-art graphic of a child or teacher with a musical staff (small and decorative).

- At the bottom right is a boxed advertisement for "The MASTER KEY" (Chromatic Pitch Instrument). The ad includes a photograph or photoreproduction of the product packaging: a rectangular box labeled "KRATT MASTER KEY CHROMATIC PITCH" and an inset photograph showing the circular pitch instrument itself (a round device with a ridged or grooved edge and a central hub, shown at slight angle). The ad also uses bold headings and several lines of descriptive copy and ordering information.

- The page overall contains no other pictorial photographs except small product images in the ads described above; the remainder of the pages is columns of text in serif type, section headings set in bold caps, and small decorative rules separating items.
Junior Etude
Edited by Elizabeth A. Gest

Farewell Symphony
by Grace D. Fox

FRANZ JOSEPH HAYDN, court musician to Prince Esterhazy, was feeling distressed. He was tired, and he was lonely for his friends in Vienna. He had been at the court for some time and he needed a vacation. He asked the Prince about it, but the Prince said No.

And not only Haydn wanted a vacation but also the members of his orchestra. They had been working hard at the country place of the Prince and wanted to see their families.

"Something must be done about it," Haydn said, "but what? That's the question." Then an idea began to grow in his mind and he smiled. "Yes," he said to himself, "I have an idea and I will try it."

At the next Court concert he smiled again as he announced that he had composed a new symphony and it would now be presented for the first time.

The players were in their places and everyone in the audience was delighted and settled themselves comfortably in their chairs to listen. The music began in the key of F-sharp minor and was rather sad, which surprised the audience somewhat because Haydn's music was usually sparkling and gay. This kept on until suddenly there came a hundred bars of loud, fast music—It sounded almost angry!

You may be sure that by now everyone was sitting up straight and wondering what was going to happen next. And do you know what did happen next? Everybody in the orchestra stopped playing! There was absolute silence! But the biggest surprise of all was yet to come.

The music began again, but very softly. One of the oboe players stopped playing, put out the light on his music rack and tip-toed quietly off the stage! Then a bassoon player did the same, then one of the violinists until, one by one, all the musicians had left the stage. When the last sounds of the last player had faded away, Haydn was left all alone, his head bowed. The audience seemed surprised and the Prince was amused at what Haydn had done with his new symphony.

But the Prince told Haydn that he understood what the symphony meant, and that on the next day all the members of the orchestra and Haydn too, could leave on their vacations.

Therefore this symphony has been called, ever since that time, the Farewell Symphony; it is even called the Goodbye Symphony in some places. Don't you think it would be fun to play it some time with your School Orchestra? Why not try it?

Piano Play
by Frances Gorman Risser

My hands are playing leap-frog. All over and down the keys; Right over left, left over right. As nimble as you please. They land, one finger pressing a key and then another. Then off they go, and land again. A pleasant sound to be heard. I have a blue, or nimble, and lightly as a breeze. My hands play leap-frog, up and down the playground of the keys.

Palace of Prince Esterhazy (photo caption)

MUSICAL BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
by Gertrude Greenhalgh Walker

As most of you know, this year, 1956, is the 250th anniversary of that famous printer, journalist, inventor, statesman, founder of an Academy which later became the University of Pennsylvania, organizer of the first circulating library in America, electric experimenter, Controller of the Colonial Postal Service, diplomat—all this and more, and yet he had time to devote to the invention of a musical instrument! This great genius was born in Boston in 1706.

On one of his trips to Europe Benjamin Franklin was very much intrigued by the sweet music he heard played on the harmonicas. These instruments were not at all like the little mouth organs called harmonicas today. They were glasses partly filled with water and played by rubbing the fingers, wet, over the rims of the glasses. By putting more water in the glass the higher will be the pitch of the tone.

Franklin, with his great mechanical ability and love of invention, soon invented an instrument that he called the Armonica. This consisted of a number of glass bowls attached to a horizontal spindle, which ran through a trough of water, so that as the bowls revolved they would always be wet, and hence were responsive to the touch of the fingers. Then the spindle was attached to a pedal which kept the bowls constantly rotating.

Franklin's Armonica was the first musical invention of importance in America and it was held in high regard by musicians of that time.

Recipe For a Good Musician
by Ann Denning

Mix all your musical ability and talent with hours of daily practice. Stir through the composition several times for mistakes and be sure to beat them well. Measure improvements slowly—one at a time, and then perfect the little musical problems. Let stand on end at least until you have consulted your teacher. Season your playing with experience. Sprinkle generously with accuracy and add a dash of common sense. Set in a cool place over night. Put your accomplishment before the audience to judge if it is well done.

Who Knows the Answers?

Keep score; 100 is perfect

1. In four-four time, how many thirty-second notes are required to fill each measure? (5 points)

2. Is the triad C, E, G-flat, major, minor, diminished or augmented? (10 points)

3. Which of the following composers were born before the Mayflower landed at Plymouth Rock (in 1620): Corelli, Bach, Vivaldi, Monteverdi, Palestrina? (20 points)

4. What is the lowest note playable on the guitar? (10 points)

5. What is meant by double-stop on the violin? (5 points)

(Staff with a short melody and notes - image)

6. What is a Sea-chanty (called shanty in some countries)? (15 points)

7. Does a three-part chorus mean that the chorus is written for three voice-parts or that the composition contains three sections? (5 points)

8. What degree of the scale is called the submediant? (10 points)

9. From what opera does the well-known Soldiers' Chorus come? (10 points)

10. What is the melody given with this clue? A—its name (5 points), B—what country does it come? (5 points)

(Answers on this page)

Spelling Instruments (Game)
by Ida M. Pardue

Change just one letter in each of the following words and each word will be changed into an instrument. First player with correct list is the winner.

1. Late; 2. corn; 3. Cuba; 4. fire; 5. drum; 6. flume; 7. hare; 8. viol; 9. crome; 10. bippipe.

(Answers on this page)

Answers to Quiz

1. Sixteen; 2. diminished; 3. Palestrina (born 1525) and Monteverdi (born 1567); 4. E, lowest bass (but written an octave higher); 5. a fingerings two or more strings simultaneously; 6. a work or chorus sung by sailors or on sailing vessels; 7. three voice-parts; 8. the sixth degree; 9. "Faust" by Gounod; 10. A—Old Lang Syne; B—Scotland. (Answers continued.)

JUNIOR ETUDE CONTEST

Junior Etude will award three attractive prizes this month for the best and neatest entries received in the contest.

Class A, 16 to 20 years of age; Class B, 12 to 16; Class C, for Juniorettes, under 12. Print your name and age on upper left corner of page and print your address on upper right corner. Names of prize winners and list of thirty receiving honorable mention will appear in a later issue.

Subject: Essay relating to music. Choose topic and title. Prizes will be mailed in November.

Mail entries to Junior Etude, Bryn Mawr, Pa., by October 31.

Letter Box

Send replies to letters in care of Junior Etude, Bryn Mawr, Pa., and if correctly stamped, they will be forwarded to the writers. Do not ask for addresses. Foreign postage is 8 cents. Foreign air mail rate varies, so consult your Post Office before sending your foreign air mail. Print your name and return address on the back of the envelope.

Dear Junior Etude:

I have been studying piano about ten years and play organ in our church. I also accompany the School Choir and accompany a ballet recital. I would like others to write to me.

Barbara Dawson (Age 16),
New Zealand

Dear Junior Etude:

I truly love music and study piano and French horn. My favorite composers are Wagner, von Weber and Richard Strauss, Puccini and Menotti. I attend symphony concerts, recitals, opera and choral concerts. I have many musical friends who join me in listening to music. I also like basketball, swimming, literature and dancing. I would like to hear from others.

Don Rohrbeck (Age 12), Pennsylvania

Dear Letter Boxers:

When addressing letters which are to be forwarded, do remember one thing—leave some space on the envelope for the forwarding address to be added, especially when the letter is to go to foreign countries. Many of the foreign addresses are rather long, and when your penmanship—shall we say "scrawls"—all over the envelope, there is not enough space left to add the forwarding address.

So, just put this little reminder in a secret cubby-hole in your brain where you keep things you want to remember. Thank you.

From your friends, Junior Etude.

Dear Junior Etude:

I have played piano for several years and also play clarinet and bass clarinet. I also play Hammond organ and hope to take up oboe or bassoon. I have composed 4 symphony numbers as well as seventeen other things. I would like to hear from anyone who is interested in music, especially in the woodwinds.

Billy Winsted (Age 13), Kentucky

From the Mail Bag

The following would also like to receive letters. Space does not permit printing their letters in full.

Julia Nakamura (Age 13), California, plays piano and violin in school orchestras; hobbies are reading and stamps;

Reenie Hubbard (Age 14), New York likes music very much and studies clarinet;

Sandra Jean Hasselblad (Age 10), Canada, studies piano and theory, hobbies are pen pals, clubs, sewing;

Annette Porter (Age 9), Kentucky, sings in her church choir; her hobby is writing original compositions;

Evelyn Lock (Age 15), Pennsylvania, plays piano in school and likes to write music for others;

Sharon Guilfoyle (Age 14), Iowa, plays clarinet and violin;

Sheila Della Sandoval (Age 14), California, studies piano, would like to become a teacher, plays organ for church choir.

(Photograph of a young boy, caption) See letter above.

Answers to Spelling Game

1. lute; 2. horn; 3. tuba; 4. fife; 5. drum; 6. flute; 7. harp; 8. viol; 9. chimes; 10. bagpipe.

(At bottom of pages: etude—october 1956 on left page; etude—september 1956 on right page)

Image descriptions:
- At top left page: A decorative Junior Etude masthead graphic showing handwritten-style text "Junior Etude" over a background of scattered sheet-music pages and a small sketch of a musical staff; below, a printed line "Edited by Elizabeth A. Gest."
- Center left page, middle: A black-and-white photograph of a large classical palace building with formal architecture and multiple windows, set on a hillside with trees in the foreground. Caption reads "Palace of Prince Esterhazy."
- Lower right page, near letters section: A small black-and-white portrait photograph of a smiling young boy in a suit and tie. Caption under the photo reads "See letter above."
FACTUAL VS. SUBJECTIVE APPROACHES
(Continued from Page 16)

one who describes various styles of attack,
such as a rapid high-finger stroke
or the same stroke plus wrist motion.
he then identifies each with an exact shade
of color which he "hears" as a result,
such as azure or vermilion.

Two Present-day Extremes

In more recent years two quite opposite camps have grown strong. In one
camp are the simon-pure objectivists
like Otto Ortmann and Arnold Schultz,
whose studies into the musculature and
lever principles of piano playing have
provided what must be the most accurate
and comprehensive information to date
about the mechanics of piano technique.
In the other camp are equally pure subjectivists like Luigi Bonpensiere,
whose "New Pathways to Piano Technique"
sometimes borders on the occult and
supernatural. Bonpensiere argues, in
brief, that no master any passage and
should will only the ideal accomplishment of the end-result, deliberately dis-
regarding the physical means or even
any awareness of the means. In this
manner, he says, "Nature" will regulate
the art with secret, subconscious, or
involuntary forces far beyond the
command of one's conscious analysis based
only on seeing, hearing, and touch. This
analysis, he adds, is in any case more
likely to impede than to aid the act.

Several other recent writers have been
in Bonpensiere's camp; if not so uncompromisingly, then at least part of the
time. Unlike their predecessors, Couperin
and C. P. E. Bach, they are aiming at the
total concept, the generalization even to
the point of dissolving specifics and
details. Each in his own way wants to
reproduce the Gestalt or totality, which
will include those intangibles of expression that even the objectivists must
recognize as such. Thus, Leonard
Deutsch has his "Guided Sight-Reading," an approach to piano study, on the
part of his Gestalt. Abby Whiteside,
in "Indispensable in Piano Playing,"
stresses for the most part the rhythmic
co-operation of the whole body. Lillian
MacKinnon ties in with her advice on
memorizing, in "Music by Heart."

Naturally, each of these authors concen-
trates on the one main viewpoint he is
defending. But there are clear dangers
for the teacher who chooses to live so ex-
clusively within either extreme. Perhaps
the worst danger for the strict,
humorless objectivist is indeed that of
failing to see the forest for the trees,
whether the problem is a single phrase
or a whole form. Another is failure to
inspire through failure to reveal meanings and goals. And still another danger

is that of not really having the right
facts. After all, musical performance in-
volves many more fields than any one
person can discuss with authority—mu-
sicianship, performance practices, music
theory, piano construction, acoustics,
anatomy, physiology, and psychology.

Perhaps the worst danger for the
overly enthusiastic subjectivist is that
of overlooking the firm foundation in
specific techniques without which clean,
neat playing is not possible. Bonpen
siere disavows all practice except that
employed to train the mental concept;
and need to develop the muscles and
specific co-ordinations is lightly dis-
missed. Similarly dismissed by Whiteside
is "the importance of a prescribed
fingering." And Deutsch believes that
his sight-reading procedures properly
understood, can replace all what Whit-
eside calls "mechanistic" learning even
to the point of concert performance.

Danger in
False Analogies

Another danger is that the subjective
approach will call forth poetic or other
analogies that simply do not hold true.
Whiteside likens the pianist's rhythmic
impulses, with the chair seat as base,
to the skater's push-off, with the ice floor
as base. But in so doing she disre-
gards the much more complex system
of intervening levers and bases that can
do operate separately while the body is
stationary. Such analogies if taken too
literally are less likely to lead than to
mislead. Elementary piano methods seem
particularly prone to errors of analogy,
especially in their over-done descriptions
of touches. "There is the hand and wrist should be light and buoyant" and the AMOUNT of the wrist and ARM
WEIGHT released into the keys (VOL-
UME CONTROL) must be varied for
the particular musical effect," such state-
ments, divorced from a sensible physi-
cal explanation, may only complicate
rather than simplify the problem.

As Schultz writes about tone control,
"My own objection to the theory of vol-
ume control or tone-quality is based
upon the fact that the relation of the
hammer to the strings and upon physi-
cal theories of sound waves (although
this evidence seems incontrovertible enough)
it is obvious that the differences are
capable in simpler and more satisfactory terms."

When two such extremes must be re-
conciled, as they must be by the teacher,
the usual solution is to avoid the either-
or question and seek a middle road. Be-
fore our present extremes had crystallized, Bülow and Lebert realized that
"the poetic programme (of Beethoven's
'Les Adieux' Sonata) . . . while saving
us many commentaries of an aesthetic
kind, does not lessen the need of tech-
nical and pedagogical analysis. The
pupil must be made conscious of what
he must do." Today, several writers still
prefer this view. Lillian MacKinnon puts
her discovery of a middle road very
simply: "There can be an old and insig-
nificant . . . Consciousness was the center of
practice; subconsciousness the center of
performance; all learning resolves itself
into habits . . . but at the outset the
conscious mind is director of opera-
tions."

Henry Borton asserts, in her fine book
"On Teaching the Piano," that "we must
first be note-learning and interpretive
before anything else . . . but the tech-
nique must be the thing to which the
pupil looks for the means of expressing
his musical thought." He goes on to show
how a new piece the pupil has
learned may be used by the teacher to
strengthen the technique of the student
in a number of ways—by varying the
tempo, by asking for extreme accents,
or by having the pupil play the same
passage for tone, for rhythm, or for
legato, etc. In other words he shows that
uses of programme music is a point which
is greatly to be commended, if it is em-
ployed with the same care that takes
full account of the physical and me-
chanical requirements of a correct per-
formance. And it is to his credit that
he makes a clear delineation of the ob-
jective and subjective aspects of teaching.

Factual teaching usually serves best where the process must be analyzed and
its details introduced or set right with
efficiency and precision. Subjective
teaching helps especially with the ex-
pressive meaning and the flow-of the
music. Both are necessary: indeed, in the
words of the Stoics, "the training of the
strong will (and) the cultivation of the
intellect belong together." The teacher
who fails to provide the proper balance
between these two functions is likely to
produce either a mechanically correct
but sterile performer, or an inspired but
technically inadequate one.

ILLUSTRATION CREDITS
13—Dan Miles
15—Galy
17—G. H. J. Mytka
20—Colbourn Studio
22—George Joseph
23—Walt Disney Productions

etude—october 1956

DISNEY FUN WITH MUSIC
(Continued from Page 57)

for introducing The Mousketeers, a
group of twenty-four talented children,
with the cooperation of Jimmie Dodd,
the youngsters sing, dance, act, pre-
sent musical surprises, audition new
material, and generally have fun with
music. One of the great values of this
program is that it was created for
youngsters by people who really know
what children like, and who can present
music in the terms of the youngsters.
Therefore it has been no surprise when
it became one of the most popular pro-
grams for young people on television.
It is an example of the way that enter-
tainment can be combined with music
and education. The Mouseketeers
have reached an enormous audience
and have given many children a love
for music. It is heartening to know
that the show has also inspired many
young viewers to take music lessons.

"I know," of course, that this is de-
ceptive, but there is some truth to the
statement that "I always find
myself being—I always find
something about the expression
of myself that I always find
helpful." This appears to be the
basis of the enthusiasm of one
Mickey Mouse Club youngster who
said, "I like the show because it is fun.
I learn a lot and I like playing with
my friends." This kind of reaction is
typical. The Mouseketeers are not only
entertaining but they are also educational.
They present music in a way that is
approachable and enjoyable for young
people.

The show has also been influential in
the field of children's records. The suc-
cess of The Mickey Mouse Club has
encouraged record companies to pro-
duce records for children of a higher
musical standard—with better arrange-
ments and performances than have been
the rule in the past. The program has
helped to raise the general musical level
of children's entertainment and has
encouraged a better respect for the
needs and interests of youthful audi-
ences. In addition, it has given many
young people their first exposure to
orchestral music and to the experience
of singing in a group.

A number of the Mouseketeers have
gone on to professional careers in show
business; others have continued their
musical studies. But perhaps the most
important result of the program is the
number of young people who have been
encouraged to take up music lessons
and to develop their own musical abil-
ities. The show has helped to show that
music can be fun—and that it can be an
important part of a child's life.

[small section continuing columns of text about various specifics, dialects and further comment on Disney programming; column continues with practical teaching suggestions and description of children's response to music and ways the program fosters musical interest. The following lines continue discussion of Mickey Mouse Club activities, the use of programme music, and musical pedagogy for young children.]

etude—october 1956

[Right-side advertisements and panels]

Top right: image of a flute with text:
The Haynes Flute
10m. E. Haynes Co.
Sole U. S. Distributors: 100 Pearl St.
111-114 Plymouth Street, Boston 10, Mass.

Large advertisement block:

STUDY
SACRED MUSIC
on the conservatory
level at MBI

Specialized, well-rounded training
prepared you for a variety of musical
positions—Church, School and Conservatory.
Courses in Organ, Piano, Voice and Church
Music. Full Conservatory Curriculum available.
(Conservatory credit or Moody credit at the
option of the student.) PHONE OR WRITE FOR
FREE BROCHURE AND CURRENT CATALOG

MOODY BIBLE INSTITUTE
820 NORTH LA SALLE STREET
CHICAGO 10, ILLINOIS

Sacred Music course offers: voice
training in piano, organ, voice and
composition. Also instruction in or-
chestration and arranging, orchestra
and choral literature—plans for or-
gan recital, choir and church organist.
Day and evening courses.

Reg. & Summer Registration, Jan. 21-22
For information and application, write:
Dept. F, Moody Bible Institute
Chicago 10, Illinois

[Below, narrow ad with photograph and text]

Seattle

[Black-and-white formal head-and-shoulders photograph of a bespectacled man wearing a suit and tie; the photograph is centered in the ad.]

Artist cash-prize winner in Guild Interna-
tional Recording Festival. For 15 years
studied with Paul Pierre McNeely.

Bruce
Duncanson

National
Piano Teachers
GUILD

Nat'l Hdqtrs: Box 1113, Austin 66, Texas

[Bottom advertisement]

MUSIC CAREERS
PIANO—VOICE—INSTRUMENTAL
Public School Music—Church Music
Opera—Radio—Television
Bachelor and Master Degrees

ST. LOUIS INSTITUTE OF MUSIC
7807 Bonhomme Avenue—St. Louis 5, Mo.

A non-profit, educational institution of higher learning approved for
Veteran's training. Member Missouri Association of Schools of Music.
Member National Association of Schools of Music.

ADVERTISING RATES
WHERE SHALL I GO TO STUDY column is limited to teachers. Rate is $10 per inch, with a
minimum insertion of 2 consecutive issues. CLASSIFIED advertising is 25¢ per word, minimum
charge of $3.00 per insertion. Closing date is the 15th of second month preceding
publication.

etude—october 1956

[Note: Several decorative elements and small logos appear in the advertisements — a horizontal photograph of a building associated with the Moody Bible Institute ad (multi-story classical building facade with tall columns and steps), an illustration of a flute in the Haynes ad, and a portrait photograph used in the Seattle/Guild advertisement.]
I can transcribe the image but some small-print areas are too blurred at this resolution to guarantee 100% accuracy. Below I’ve transcribed all clearly legible text and described the non-text images. If you need a complete, fully accurate transcription of the tiny print (faculty lists, catalog addresses and small boxed copy), please provide a higher-resolution or cropped close-up of the right-hand column ads and I will finish the transcription precisely.

Transcribed text (verbatim where legible):

Oberlin Conservatory
OF MUSIC

Dedication of the Superior Training of American Talent

Intensive professional study of MUSIC, balanced with a liberal arts program in America’s first coeducational college. Dormitories. Concert series by guest and Oberlin artists. Excellent practice facilities. Faculty of 55 eminent musicians.
Member National Association of Schools of Music

Write for:
– Conservatory catalog describing degrees awarded
– Bulletin on admission and audition procedures
– Calendar of music events of the current year
– Programs of concerts, recitals given during past season

Director of Admissions, Oberlin College
Box 5106, Oberlin, Ohio

(illustration: detailed pen-and-ink drawing of a stone tower or turret with conical roof, narrow windows, and an arched doorway — appears as an architectural rendering, left of the Oberlin ad text)

-----------------------------------------------------

BUTLER UNIVERSITY
JORDAN COLLEGE OF MUSIC

A fine tradition, a progressive philosophy, an outstanding faculty, complete accreditation. Baccalaureate degrees in Piano, Organ, Violin, Voice, Music Education, Radio, Musicological and Composition studies.

JORDAN COLLEGE OF MUSIC (Box E) 1200 North Delaware Street
Indianapolis 5, Indiana

-----------------------------------------------------

AMERICAN CONSERVATORY
OF MUSIC—CHICAGO

Offers courses in all branches of music
Send for a free catalogue—address John R. Hattstaedt, Pres., Fine Arts Bldg., Chicago 558.

-----------------------------------------------------

Manhattan School of Music
BACHELOR AND MASTER OF MUSIC DEGREES
catalog sent on request
238 East 105th Street, New York 29, N. Y.

-----------------------------------------------------

all-strings

A Basic Method by George Best
Full score FREE to string teachers on request
VARI-TONE, INC., 345 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 17

-----------------------------------------------------

BALDWIN-WALLACE
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
BEREA, OHIO (suburb of Cleveland)
Affiliated with Baldwin-Wallace College.
Day and Evening classes. For catalogue write:
CECIL W. MUNK, Director, Berea, Ohio

-----------------------------------------------------

(Article text — central column, legible paragraphs)

trained and highly competent musicians.
Musical ability is a prime requisite in this department, as is fluent reading of musical notation; nearly all sound effects must be recorded from a score, so that animation, music and sound may be perfectly synchronized. Further, the sound effects men never know when they will be called upon to devise strange new instruments (and then to play them into the recording microphone) that will reproduce sounds that never existed previously—the sound of a nose being twitched, of a goose waddling down the road, of voices talking under water.

The singular nature of the Disney animated pictures makes it virtually impossible for the sound effects men to borrow their materials from libraries or other studios. All sound effects are created especially for the scenes in which they are used; and, since sound and action tracks are made separately, the sound effects men must know exactly how many feet of visual film a sound effect is to take up; what the acoustical conditions of the picture are and at what moment the sound must fall in relation to the action. Hence, all Disney sound effects are done in the studio.

Mechanical gadgets, and all sorts of inventions born of the resourcefulness of the sound effects men, as well as voice effects, and various sounds in recording and re-recording to alter pitch and quality of tone—all these join with the actual composition of music to speed up the strange and usually comical repertoire of tones so vital to the special Disney brand of fun with music.

THE END

OPERA TODAY
(Continued from Page 20)

tonal wealth of Strauss’ “Salome” and “Elektra,” and the dramatic verismo of Puccini’s popular successes, are all terminal points of a long development. There can be expanded room. For a new opera, the most fruitful new musical materials must be found.

Thus it is with the appearance of Milhaud, Berg, Hindemith, etc., who have been for a new period of dramatic creativity and development. While the main aim of those composers was that of creating new materials for our musical vocabulary, those new elements tend to be incorporated in all conventional musical forms, that of opera included. Thus for the moment the tone became just one other musical texture to which to apply their new ideas. There was a musical problem and not so much a dramatic one. The new men were not so much concerned with the latter or even attempted to ignore it.

In the period from 1910 to the early thirties, a number of very good operas came into being. The style was daring, the dramatic approach, or the lack of it, equally so. Stravinsky in his operatorio, “Oedipus Rex,” did away with old action on stage; Hindemith in his “Neues vom Tage” and Schoenberg in his “Von Heute auf Morgen” both wrote first-rate music to comedies of utter insignificance; in Honegger’s “Antigone,” the speed of the spoken word is adopted to dramatic vocal recitative; Milhaud used the most extravagant means in his “Oresteia” and in his “Christophe Colomb” while he used the smallest and most concentrated ones in his “Minute Operas.” All this resulted in a varied period in operatic development. And it culminated in the appearance of such masterworks as Alban Berg’s “Wozzeck” and “Lulu,” Milhaud’s already mentioned “Christophe Colomb,” Hindemith’s “Mathis der Maler,” and Schoenberg’s “Moses and Aron.” Nevertheless this was not an operatic period as was that of Verdi and Wagner. And if during that period the balance between music and drama in many an opera had been overthrown somewhat in favor of the music, we accepted this much more readily than the reverse.

When in the thirties the new materials could be considered as acquired and implanted in the musical language, the overall problem became one of finding the adequate expressive urgency for which to use them. In this case, opera would seem to be the most natural outlet for the possibility of assimilating and eventually of unifying the various elements of the contemporary masters, while at the same time one would take into account the entire heritage of three centuries of operatic achievements and thus approach opera again with a greater balance between the musical and the dramatic elements.

While the 1930’s did show a tendency towards a new romanticism among a younger generation of composers, opera during that decade was not yet approached in the sense of regarding it as the new ideal forum in music. Political upheavals and, in quite practical considerations, the necessities of the new approach. Naturally composers such as Stravinsky, Schoenberg, Berg, Milhaud, Hindemith, Honegger and Krenek did continue to write operas in their own uncompromising manner and theirs is still the only contribution to a field which the younger writers seem to turn away from. In the late thirties there is only one ample example of a young composer who has the natural urgency to create opera. It is the Italian Luigi Dallapiccola, who in his “Volo di Notte” composed in 1938-1939, combined atonal organization and an extraordinary lyricism having a slight Puccini influence. The situation changes completely in

(continued to right-hand page)

-----------------------------------------------------

Right-hand column boxed items (legible portions):

New Fall Releases
Early Original Classics
$1.00
by Russell E. Lanning

Notebook of
Anna Magdalena Bach
(Selected Piano Compositions in original form)
$1.00
by Russell E. Lanning

Specially prepared to show students how the classic composer wrote for the piano and other keyboard instruments. The Bach Selections included give clear examples of phrasing and style for proper phrasing and authentic performance.

Let’s Play Carols
65c Arranged by Bermont
18 Favorite Christmas Carols made easy to sing and play.
MUSIC ORP PUBLICATIONS
55 Park Ave., STATEN ISLAND 10, N. Y.
(Write for FREE Catalogue)

-----------------------------------------------------

CHICAGO CONSERVATORY
Founded 1857
CHICAGO CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
Degrees—Bachelor & Master of Music
For catalog write:
Five Arts Bldg., Chicago 5, Ill.

-----------------------------------------------------

MILLIKIN UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
DECATUR, ILLINOIS
(offers degrees and courses — director name partially legible)
W. S. CLARE MINTHUN, Director

-----------------------------------------------------

Philadelphia Conservatory of Music
(Miss) Maria ________, Director
Address and phone numbers shown (small print)

-----------------------------------------------------

Diller-Quaile
MUSIC SCHOOL
... (small print—address and phone number partially legible)

-----------------------------------------------------

(Boston University ad — large heading legible; smaller faculty list and some lines are small and hard to read at this resolution)

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
COLLEGE OF MUSIC

A Division of the School of Fine and Applied Arts

Courses in all branches of music leading to B.M. and M.M. Degrees, Doctor of Musical Arts Degree in Applied Music, Composition, and Music Education.

Distinguished Faculty includes:
[faculty list in small type — not completely legible at this resolution]

For catalogue write:
Robert A. Choate, Dean
25 Blagden Street, Boston 16, Mass.

-----------------------------------------------------

Right lower boxed ad (legible heading and many bullets, some small lines small to read):

Before you decide —
CHECK THE
New England
CONSERVATORY
OF MUSIC

PERFORMANCE OPPORTUNITIES INCLUDE:
– Weekly student assemblies
– Public recitals in the Conservatory
– Opportunity for professional performances through the Conservatory
– First Symphony Orchestra with full symphony repertoire
– Smaller ensembles and chamber music organizations
– Access to Boston’s many musical organizations and teachers
[more small-print bullet points follow; some lines too small to render exactly at this resolution]

For illustrated catalog, mail coupon to:
[small form fields for Name, Address, City & State — form small, partly legible]

-----------------------------------------------------

Page footers:
etude—october 1956 (page numbers 60 and 61 at bottom corners)

Non-textual image descriptions:
- Left-page Oberlin ad contains a pen-and-ink architectural drawing of a multi-story stone tower with conical roof, narrow slit windows and an arched entrance. The drawing is detailed, with stonework lines and shading.
- Several boxed advertisements include small decorative rules and simple divider lines; one small image near the New Fall Releases box shows small music-staff lines (decorative), and other boxes contain small typographic logos.

If you want every single word (including tiny faculty lists and all boxed small-print addresses) transcribed precisely, please upload a higher-resolution crop of the right-hand column (especially the Boston University and New England Conservatory boxes) and the small boxed ads (Philadelphia Conservatory, Diller-Quaile, Millikin), and I’ll produce a complete, exact transcription.
The 1940's when, with the emergence of Benjamin Britten, we enter a new operatic era. For his is the example of a composer for whom opera represents a new ideal outlet in this new romantic period. In his first works, namely "Peter Grimes" and "The Rape of Lucretia," we come again to examples where there is a more natural balance between music and drama. When we consider the pure musical aspect of Britten's works, everything is far from being perfect as yet. For while this composer has to his credit a musical sense of drama in an extraordinary way, while he has a feeling for a beautiful lyrical line fitted like a glove to the prosody of the English language, and while he does handle his material with taste and with a sense of color and atmosphere, there is almost fantastic versatility of styles is sometimes of objectionable nature. I, myself, once compared Britten to the figure of Meyerbeer, who, although somewhat in oblivion today, once played a certain role in the European operatic picture. It is well to remember, however, that Meyerbeer with all his objectionable aspects did influence both Wagner and Verdi at certain points of their careers.

Since the emergence of Britten, awareness of the operatic art form has continued to grow steadily among European composers. Apart from the already mentioned Dallapiccola, and the names of, among others, Carl Orff, Gottfried von Einem, Rolf Liebermann, Henri Sauguet, etc., have come to the fore. Each one has approached the operatic problem with an unmistakable awareness of dramatic exigencies and has not disregarded recent acquisitions of musical materials. Certain details of their operas, certain approaches may be subject to criticism, but the overall contribution can presently not be ignored. Altogether the present operatic situation in Europe may still not be as rich as it was before the curtailment of war, but quality in new works is becoming more pronounced and a very rich operatic period may very well be at the horizon.

In this country one also observes that composers are turning more and more to the field of opera and its inherent possibilities of expression. The public has shown more tolerance for a wide range of musical styles, and composers are no longer venturing into opera for mere money; they want to express themselves in a medium where the possibilities are no longer of the narrowest kind. The young composers of today are well aware of the tradition and are not satisfied any more with the simple pastiche. They want to develop a personal idiom of their own and in this way contribute to the permanent literature of the stage. There is, of course, much that still has to be done, and the practical conditions, whereby any

WHERE SHALL I GO TO STUDY?

RICHARD McCLANAHAN
Teacher of Piano
Methodical teacher, widely experienced, takes beginners to conservatory grade and beyond. 209 West 57 St., 5th flr., New York City. 801 Steinway Bldg., 113 W. 57th St., N.Y.C.

EDWIN HUGHES
PREPARATIONS FOR PUBLIC PERFORMANCE AND FOR COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY AND CONSERVATORY TEACHING POSITIONS
1170 EAST 120TH St., New York, N. Y.

HELEN ANDERSON
Teacher of Voice. Dramatic chanteuse. Teachers of successful War Recruits. Studio, 164 W. 23d St., N.Y.C. Tel. MU 4-8365

Mme. Giovanna Viola Hull (Desmond)
Teacher of Singing—European trained
Voice culture—reconstruction
504 West 162d St. Tel. HUdson 7-9290 New York City

CRYSTAL WATERS
Teacher of Singing
Popular Songs and Classics
105 East 54th St., New York 22, N.Y.
Studio open—September 1

LEOPOLD WOLFSOHN
Pianist, Teacher, Composer
Teacher of Aaron Copland, Lili Kraus former member of the Beethoven String Quartette of 20th Century Artistic Fountains and Steinway Artist
Res: Ascot Hotel, 573 7TH AVE., New York City

WILLIAM FICHANDLER
Pianist, Teacher
314 West 57th St., New York, SU-7-3775
Composer, Publisher (Leg. G. Schirmer)
and Theatre Producer.

ERNESTO BERUMEN
CONCERT PIANIST AND PEDAGOGUE
Pupils successful in recitals and competition
150 Greene Ave., Flushing, Queens, N.Y.
Res., 64-10 235th St., Queens Village, N.Y.

GEORGE FORGE
Teacher, Pianist
Pupils have won many awards
Member of Asociacion de Musicos Dominicanos
Cedar MI 4-6311

MARY BOXALL BOYD
Teacher of Voice and Pianist
Pupils successful in Competition and Recital
Telephone: LE 9-0316 140 W. 72d St., New York City

WILLIAM T. POLLACK
Pianist, Deen & Professor of Music
Member of National Association of Schools of Music
1 Madison Ave., New York City

EVANGELINE LEHMAN; Mus.D.
Teacher of Voice
168 West 72d St. Apt. 20C New York 23, N.Y.
Phone: Wabash 2-2744

HARRY EULER TREIBER: Mus. D.
Voice Building
Pupil of the late Wm. J. Whitely
Whitely Studio, Studio 509, 270 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.

LUCIUS DUNCAN
VIOLINIST
Le 7-0723 104 N. Main St., Phila., 2 Pa.

ISABEL HUTCHESON
Modern Piano Teacher—Pupil of M. Parteni
Studio 203, 1001 F.W. McK. Bldg., Dallas, Texas

EDNA GUNNAR PETERSON
Concert Pianist—Teacher—Art of Piano—Artist Teacher
17447 Coombs Ave., Pacific Palisades, Calif.
Gladstone 4-1603

MAE GILBERT REESE
PIANIST
Specialized training to prepare for professional service.
857 S. Raymond Blvd., Los Angeles 5, Cal.
Paul Revere 4-1272

HAROLD HURLBUT
Has taught singers of METROPOLITAN OPERA
GIVEN at summoning of TOSCA
HADEN CONNER, Howard Keel, Evelyn Eure, HARRISON MAGAN, others
2170 N. Beecliffood, Hollywood, Calif.

MARSHALL BAILEY
Teacher of Pianoforte
32 Woodlawn Ave.
New England Conservatory of Music
Box 331, Lincoln Ave., Salem, Ohio

ALFRED TROEMEL
Teacher of Violin
Leopold Auer’s last pupil. Violinist of Concert Tours in Europe. Teacher for many years.
231 E. 58 St., New York 22. Tel. OL 9-7387

ANNA
Voice Teacher
Formerly Member of Vienna State Opera
Pupils in Concerts and Radio
All phases of vocal technique taught. 237 W. 57 St., New York 19.
Tel. FA 6-2106

THE SYDNEYS
Voice Teachers—DAVID & JOAN
Develop the Bell of the Voice
Specialists in Rhythm and the All-important Technique.
111 W. 57th St., New York, N.Y. Tel. BRyant 9-5260

HAZEL GRIGGS
Teacher of Piano and Theory
521 Tenth Ave., New York, 18, N.Y. PHone: PL 7-0437

ROSE RAYMOND
Experienced Vocal Teacher
Private Tuition and Class Instruction
326 West 58th St., New York City Tel: CIrcle 6-7324

RICHARD McCLANAHAN (again listing—duplicate block on page) (This area seems to be a continuation and repetition of some listings on this page.)

(Middle column listings continue:)
RICHARD McCLANAHAN
Teacher of Piano
209 W. 57th St., 5th Fl., N.Y.C.

EDWIN HUGHES
Preparations for public performance and for college, university and conservatory teaching positions

HELEN ANDERSON
Teacher of Voice
164 W. 23d St., N.Y.C. Tel. MU 4-8365

Mme. Giovanna Viola Hull (Desmond)
504 West 162d St. Tel. HUdson 7-9290

CRYSTAL WATERS
105 East 54th St., New York 22, N.Y.

LEOPOLD WOLFSOHN
573 7th Ave., New York City

WILLIAM FICHANDLER
314 West 57th St., N.Y. SU-7-3775

ERNESTO BERUMEN
150 Greene Ave., Flushing, Queens, N.Y.

GEORGE FORGE
Cedar MI 4-6311

MARY BOXALL BOYD
140 W. 72d St., New York City Tel: LE 9-0316

WILLIAM T. POLLACK
1 Madison Ave., New York City

EVANGELINE LEHMAN, Mus.D.
168 West 72d St., Apt. 20C New York 23, N.Y.
Phone: Wabash 2-2744

(Additional listings in center column, lower)
EDWIN HUGHES (again)
Preparations for Public Performance and for College, University and Conservatory Teaching Positions
1170 East 120th St., New York, N.Y.

HELEN ANDERSON (again)
164 W. 23d St., N.Y.C.

Mme. Giovanna Viola Hull (Desmond)
504 West 162d St., New York City

CRYSTAL WATERS
105 East 54th St., New York 22

LEOPOLD WOLFSOHN
573 7th Ave., New York City

WILLIAM FICHANDLER
314 West 57th St., New York, SU-7-3775

ERNESTO BERUMEN
150 Greene Ave., Flushing

GEORGE FORGE
Cedar MI 4-6311

MARY BOXALL BOYD
140 W. 72d St., N.Y.C.

WILLIAM T. POLLACK
1 Madison Ave., New York City

EVANGELINE LEHMAN, Mus.D.
Phone Wabash 2-2744

(There are several repeated entries in this "Where Shall I Go To Study?" column, as it is formatted with many individual small advertisements.)

(At bottom of central column)
etude—october 1956

(Right page top)
not showing imagination and invention, one hardly gets a performance in the ordinary, leads composers of ability and large scope of their works to work in another factory which may influence the poor quality of the operas composed by American composers, is that a number of contemporary masterpieces written in the 1920's and the 1930's have never been presented in this country. In contrast to the present situation in Europe where contemporary opera is being presented in its entirety at important theatres, largely a certain number of exceptions is to be found in the country. On the other hand, the interest which they arouse in Europe is not only handfull, but their works may present to some extent a new aspect or an ability to work in an entirely novel way; hence their approach has a great deal of value. American composers, from many viewpoints, have their difficulties; nevertheless, when we are able to overcome these, the first of which shall be mentioned here—well—the END

ORGAN QUESTIONS
(Continued from Page 44)
and even plays and bar dances.
C. E. B.—N. Y.

We are afraid it would be impossible to venture an estimate on the cost of materials without more specific information as to the size and character of the pipe organ you are planning to build. It would be better not to generalize. We will be glad to answer specific questions; if you will consult carefully the advertisement in this issue of "The Diapason" with the description of organs and organ matters, in the various sections of that magazine you will find firms specializing in the making of organs, and in the classified ads there are many used organs. For each issue there are lists of new organs for sale by various dealers and individuals.

WALLINGFORD RIEGGER
(Continued from Page 53)

for Violin and Piano, and the remarkable Music for Brass Choir. Since 1950, Riegger's output has included new works of the last six years also include the following:
Quartet for Woodwind Instruments, Opus 56
Quintet for Piano and Woodwind Instruments, Opus 57
Suite for Piano and Orchestra, Opus 58
Dance Rhythms, for Orchestra, Opus 58
Sonata, "The Dying of the Light" (D. H. Lawrence), Opus 59
Concerto, for Orchestra, Opus 60
(Continued on Page 64)

(Top right boxed ad with illustration of students)
EDUCATION FOR SUCCESS IN THE MUSICAL PROFESSION

One- and two-year Certificate courses prepare for private studio teaching. Four- and five-year courses lead to Bachelor's and Master's Degrees, and include cultural courses at Downtown Center of University of Chicago. Piano, voice, organ, violin, cello, wind instruments, composition, public school music. Faculty of renowned European and American artists. Many opportunities for public recital, solo and group performance. Member of the National Association of Schools of Music. Founded 1895. Splendidly equipped lake-front building in the heart of cultural Chicago. Lake-front dormitory facilities. For catalog, write Arthur Wildman, Musical Director.

SHERWOOD MUSIC SCHOOL
Sherwood Building • 1014 S. Michigan Ave. • Chicago 5, Ill.

(Bottom right column boxed ads:)

BOSTON CONSERVATORY of MUSIC
ALBERT ALPHIN, Dir.
26 Fenway, Boston, Mass.
Courses in Applied Music, Composition and Music Education leading to
B.M., B.Mus.Ed., Piano, Voice, String Instruments and Composition.
Faculty of excellent Conservatory Teachers. Catalog on request.
Member National Association of Schools of Music.
Fall Term Sept. 18

NEW YORK COLLEGE OF MUSIC
Chartered 1878
Arved Kurtz, Director
College and Professional Courses … Class and Individual Instruction … Daytime or Evening … Full or Part Time
114 EAST 85th Street Write for Bulletin NEW YORK 28, N. Y.

PEABODY CONSERVATORY
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
Regional School of the Johns Hopkins University
Complete musical training for all branches. Courses leading to degrees or certificates. Faculty of outstanding prominence. Member of the National Association of Schools of Music.
Registar: E. M. Vernon Place Baltimore 7, Maryland

MUSIC and ARTS INSTITUTE of SAN FRANCISCO
Bachelor of Music Degree
Free Literature
2622 Jackson, S.F. 15 Ross McKee, Director

MUSIC MEMORY TRAINING
INTRODUCTION TO MODERN MUSIC
Classes or Private Lessons
PAUL EMERICH
for information write or call
315 West 57 Street, New York, N. Y. CIrcle 5-0838

PHILADELPHIA MUSICAL ACADEMY
Founded 1876
E. M. ALLYN, Director, Conservatory
EIGHTY-SEVENTH SEASON 1956-1957
Branch Studio, 1617 Spruce St., Phila. 3, Pa.
FR 5-5083

(There is a small boxed ad in the right column:)
SHERWOOD MUSIC SCHOOL
Sherwood Building • 1014 S. Michigan Ave. • Chicago 5, Ill.

(Bottom right corner)
63

etude—october 1956

(Non-textual images description)
- Left page: The page consists of text columns. Center column is a tall rectangular boxed directory titled "WHERE SHALL I GO TO STUDY?" containing many small boxed advertisements for private music and voice teachers. Each small ad contains names, specializations (piano, voice, violin, etc.), addresses, telephone numbers, and brief credentials. The boxed directory uses thin black lines to separate individual advertisements.
- Right page top right: A rectangular advertisement with an illustration of three stylized figures (students) in academic gowns and caps, framed by a rectangular border; headed "EDUCATION FOR SUCCESS IN THE MUSICAL PROFESSION" with descriptive text about courses and the Sherwood Music School address.
- Right page lower half: A column of boxed advertisements for various music conservatories and schools (Boston Conservatory of Music, New York College of Music, Peabody Conservatory, Music and Arts Institute of San Francisco, Music Memory Training by Paul Emerich, Philadelphia Musical Academy). Each ad is enclosed in thin rectangular borders, contains institution names, directors, addresses, brief course descriptions, and contact information.
- Page footer: Page numbers 62 (left) and 63 (right) and the magazine title/date "etude—october 1956" at bottom center of each page.

Note: Some small type and repeated listings in the central directory are abbreviated above to reflect repeated entries; the directory contains many individual teacher listings with addresses and phone numbers as shown.
CLASSIFIED ADS

HARMONY, Composition, Orchestration, Musical Theory. Private or Correspondence Instruction. Manuscripts read and corrected. Music arranging. Frank S. Bialeck, 324-05 163d St., Floral Park 50, L. I., N. Y.

LEARN PIANO TUNING—Simplified, authentic instruction $4.00—literature free. Prof. Ross, 456 Beecher St., Elmira, N. Y.

WRITE SONGS—Read "Songwriter's Review" Magazine. 1650—ET Broadway, New York 19. 25c copy, $2.00 yr. (Est. 1946)

SWING PIANO—BY MAIL. 20 self-teaching lessons; phonograph records; practical. Bill Grogan School, Box 69, Ardmore, Pa.

LEARN PIANO TUNING AT HOME. Course covers all phases. New funds for business. Write today for free booklet. National School, Dept. 19, 1011 Wells St., Lafayette, Ind.

FREE MAIL-ORDER CATALOG: Hundreds of fine instruction books and orchestral music for piano, organ, violin, guitar. Curwen Music House, 15 West 44th St., New York 36, N. Y.

SACRIFICING 200 ACCORDIONS—ALL KINDS. Discounts. Free catalog. Great bargains. Victor Accordions, P. O. Box 18, Hoboken, N. J.

BACK POPULAR SHEET MUSIC TO 1850. Catalog 25c. Music Index, Box 126, Denver 1, Colorado.

OLD VIOLINS AND OTHER INSTRUMENTS. Repairs, appraisals. Buy and sell. H. G. Baker, 112 W. 42nd St., New York 36, N. Y.

TYMPANO. The Touch System of Playing the Piano. For relaxed arm, naturally produced tone. Send for details. Tympano Studios, 320 Lexington Ave., New York.

GROTRIAN-STEINWEG PIANOS, international reputation. Write for descriptive folder. House of [unclear] Grove, Minneapolis, Minn.

KRAZLER HARPSICHORDS, finest materials, fine tone. Box 318, Gloucester, Mass.

PIANO TUNING COURSE—Complete instruction for beginners and advanced; also repair; telephone work. Complete tools and practice. Free booklet. Dept. A-32, Richmond School, 1123 Clay St., Oakland 12, Calif.

PLAY ALL THE LATEST POPULAR PIANO SHEET MUSIC. $1.00 per month. Walter A. Purvis, 55 N. Main St., Wolfeboro, N. H.

ACCORDIONS—Direct from importer—save 30%. Easy terms. Free circular. Continental Music House, 1263 W. 6th St., Los Angeles, Calif.

ARRANGEMENTS—piano, for vocalists, bands—scores, arrangements. Wm. J. Rountree, 1145 North 11th St., Maywood, Ill.

HAND BUILDING EXERCISES FOR PIANISTS by Dr. Jos. Hurtado. Teaches control. 12 lessons, $1.50. Send orders to Dr. J. Hurtado, 1730 West 8th St., Wilmington, Del.

THE WINSETT TRANSPOSER takes the confusion out of transposition. Book and slide. $3.95 postpaid. S. Winsett, C. K. West, Florida.

MODERN INDIVIDUALIZED PIANO or organ taught in large classes, correspondence. Write for information: GEORGE FORGE NATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE COURSE, Box 70, Etude Bldg., 1500 Broadway, N. Y. City. (George Forge is the author of the copyrighted text "The New Art of Student Construction.")

SCIENTIFIC SIGHT READING guarantees a doubled sight reading improvement in 30 days. Send for free demonstration. Box 214, Brooklyn 25, New York.

SONGWRITERS—I'll make you a complete publisher; free brochure. For your piano melody, send phrases, measures. Will do arrangements, copy-rights. R. L. Mason, 415 Adams St., Cleveland, Ohio.

FOR SALE: Rare recordings, free list. Collectors. C. R. Smith, 116th St., Ridgefield Park, N. J.

ANGER YOU A CHRISTIAN SINGER, OR MUSICIAN? If so, write "Happy Heart" for free catalogue and song folio. The Happy Heart, 2213 Clement St., San Francisco, Cal.

RECORDERS (Wood Flutes). Ideal for home, school, church and recorder ensemble. New book and finger charts. Send 25c for details. Recorder Shop, 309 West Fourth St., Los Angeles 13, Calif.

FOR SALE: Several old Italian violins, write for list. Box 209, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

NOTE READING AID. A graphic picture of the keyboard showing positions of notes, intervals, keys. 50c postpaid. Send to: Note Aid, 405 East 57 St., New York 22, N. Y.

LEARN WHILE ASLEEP? Methods universally used. Send name and address for free literature. Sleep Learning Institute, 542 S. Grand Ave., Los Angeles 10, Calif.

HOME STUDY PIANO COURSE OF COOPER. Complete system for home study. Mail lessons twice monthly; free booklet. 1231 N. Main St., Los Angeles, Calif.

FOR SALE: 15 complete volumes of ETUDE Magazine, 1940-1954. Will sell cheap. Write Mrs. Louis Bittner, Steubenville, Ohio.

SONGWRITERS—BEAUTIFUL MELODY, CHORDS to piano solos, $1.00. Samples, 25c. Songs and Themes Service, 1246 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

ATTENTION, SINGERS! ACCOMPANIMENTS recorded on DDR records. For albums, single orders. Secure materials for program. Complete list. Records, 1046 W. Ashland Ave., Chicago, Ill.

SHEET MUSIC BARGAIN OFFER: Our loss is your gain. Hundreds of new and slightly used folios, popular songs, classical works. Prices low. Write today. Music Mart, 908 Market St., San Francisco, Calif.

DON'T MISS THEM. Two new and beautiful books for young teachers. "How to Teach the Young Pupil" and "Teaching the Advanced Pupil." Send 50c for both. Musicians' Bureau, Box 71, Rochester, N. Y.

HULL'S SUPPLY HOUSE. Imported and Jobbers' supplies. Send for catalog. HULL'S, 1000 Union St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

SHEET MUSIC, 10c. Assorted as they come. 3 for 25c. Write for list. Irving Sedge, 332 Maple Ave., Newark, N. J.

EXPERT COPYING, TRANSPOSED. Neat, accurate, prompt service. Write for rates. E. J. Collins, 1853 Madison Ave., New York 29, N. Y.

WANTED: Pianists, accompanists, concertists. Driver's salary negotiable. Apply: Mrs. M. Levine, 1126 17th St., Denver, Colo.

(Continued from Page 63)

Preamble and Fugue, Opus 61.

A good portion of Riegger's work in the tradition vein consists of Ger-bradmusik, and especially of music designed for young musicians. Riegger is not only a composer, but a skillful pedagogue. His "Suite for Younger Orchestras," and his set of piano pieces entitled "New and Old" are proof enough of his gift for writing "educational" music; his is the highest quality, and, thus, everyone knows, is rare indeed. Riegger has had great practical experience as an editor and arranger for most of his life (even composers must earn a living), and has given him a notable insight into the problem of introducing the young to various idioms, both new and old.

The bulk of Riegger's creation since 1941 falls into one somewhat near the twelve-tone category. Riegger rarely applies this technique strictly, and never, as Elliott Carter phrased it, employs "the special rhetoric of the Viennese." Riegger's virtue of twelve-tone technique is a special contribution to contemporary music, and it may well be his most enduring and influential accomplishment in terms of style. Carter comments that Riegger "succeeds in domesticating the twelve-tone system," and perhaps this somewhat describes Riegger's personal application of the Schoenbergian idea. What is notable is the rhythmic vigor, formal clarity and sensuous appeal of Riegger's tonal style. What once appeared to many musicians as a contradiction—the reconciliation of new tonal techniques with certain traditional bases of form and organization—is a reality in Riegger's music. And Riegger continues to experiment and to enlarge the scope of his technical practices. His recent song, commissioned by Juilliard School of Music for its 50th Anniversary Festival, is a major contribution and joins the works of a dubious system, yet which is filled with great effect and naturalness. Riegger in his art never travels the path of the iconoclast for iconoclast's sake, but he preserves the humanistic implications of conventional harmonic devices; a contradiction in terms perhaps, but one which occurs nonetheless in quite a few "twelve-tone" pieces.

To say, even, Riegger is still seeking reconciliations of old and new, and still composing music more genuinely "advanced" than are most of his colleagues forty years his junior.

Riegger is now one of our "grand old masters," and his place in the aesthetic and affection of the musical world is secure. His seventieth birthday brought forth tributes from all corners of the world. We should all be grateful for more performances and more recordings of the two dozen or more of Riegger's works that seem certain to endure.

THE END

etude — october — 1956

MODERN INDIVIDUALIZED PIANO or organ taught in large classes, correspondence. Write for information: GEORGE FORG THE NATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE COURSE, Box __, Etude Bldg., 1500 Broadway, N. Y. City. (George Forge is the author of the copyrighted text "The New Art of Student Construction.")

SCIENTIFIC SIGHT READING guarantees a doubled sight reading improvement in 30 days. Send for free demonstration. Box 214, Brooklyn 25, New York.

SONGWRITERS—I'll make you a complete publisher. For your piano melody, send phrases, measures. Will do arrangements, copyrights. R. L. Mason, 415 Adams St., Cleveland, Ohio.

FOR SALE: Rare recordings, free list. Collectors. C. R. Smith, 116th St., Ridgefield Park, N. J.

ARE YOU A CHRISTIAN SINGER, OR MUSICIAN? If so write "Happy Heart" for free catalogue and song folio. The Happy Heart, 2213 Clement St., San Francisco, Calif.

RECORDERS (Wood Flutes). Ideal for home, school, church and recorder ensemble. New book and finger charts. Send 25c for details. Recorder Shop, 309 W. Fourth St., Los Angeles 13, Calif.

FOR SALE: Several old Italian violins, write for list. ETUDE, Box 59, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

NOTE READING AID. A graphic picture of the keyboard showing positions of notes, intervals, keys. 50c postpaid. Send to: Note Aid, 405 E. 57th St., New York 22, N. Y.

LEARN WHILE ASLEEP? Method universally used. Send name and address for free literature. Sleep Learning Institute, 542 South Grand Ave., Los Angeles 10, Calif.

HOME STUDY PIANO COURSE OF COOPER. Complete system for home study. Mail lessons twice monthly; free booklet. 1231 N. Main St., Los Angeles, Calif.

FOR SALE: 15 complete volumes of ETUDE Magazine, 1940-1954. Will sell cheap. Mrs. Louis Bittner, Steubenville, Ohio.

SONGWRITERS—BEAUTIFUL MELODY & CHORDS to piano solos, $1. Samples 25c. Songs and Themes Service, 1246 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

ATTENTION, SINGERS! ACCOMPANIMENTS recorded on DDR records. For albums, single orders. Secure materials for program. Complete list. Records, 1046 W. Ashland Ave., Chicago, Ill.

SHEET MUSIC BARGAIN OFFER: Our loss is your gain. Hundreds of new and slightly used folios, popular songs, classical works. Prices low. Write today. Music Mart, 908 Market St., San Francisco, Calif.

DON'T MISS THEM. Two new and beautiful books for young teachers. "How to Teach the Young Pupil" and "Teaching the Advanced Pupil." Send 50c for both. Musicians' Bureau, Box 71, Rochester, N. Y.

HULL'S SUPPLY HOUSE. Imported and Jobber supplies. Send for catalog. Hull's, 1000 Union St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

SHEET MUSIC, 10c. Assorted as they come. 3 for 25c. Write for list. Irving Sedge, 332 Maple Ave., Newark, N. J.

EXPERT COPYING, TRANSPOSED. Neat, accurate, prompt service. Rates on request. E. J. Collins, 1853 Madison Ave., New York 29, N. Y.

WANTED: Pianist, accompanist, concertist. Driver's salary negotiable. Apply Mrs. M. Levine, 1126 17th St., Denver, Colo.

[Note: Many small classified items continued across the page; above represents the main classified entries legible on the left page.]

A convincing testimonial . . . is this booklet which lists hundreds of great concert artists now appearing before the public on the concert stages of the world.

Reproduced on this page is only a part of that list, yet it is a glowing tribute to the greatness of the Steinway and a mark of the esteem it enjoys. STEINWAY & SONS

45-02 Ditmars Boulevard, Long Island City 5, N. Y.

LIST OF ARTISTS (partial, reproduced on page)

[Three columns of names surrounding the central booklet image; names include many prominent pianists, violinists, singers, conductors, and ensembles. Below is a transcription of the names as they appear on the page (as completely as legible).]

Ida Krehm
Alfred Brendel
Clara Haskil
Myra Hess
Vlado Perlemuter
Gósta Bjdstrom
Ruth Slenczynska
Mieczyslaw Horszowski
Marian Israels
Eugene List
Jan Smeterlin
Guiomar Novaes
Arthur Rubinstein
Artur Schnabel
Isabelle Vengerova
Alexander Brailowsky
Shura Cherkassky
Paul Jacobs
William Kapell
Jose Iturbi
Josef Hofmann
Josef Lhevinne
Josef Hofmann (repeat) [note: some repetition present]
Josef Hofmann appears more than once in original list
Van Cliburn
Clifford Curzon
Stanley Newd
Guiomar Novaes
Armand Paoliacc
Yella Pessl
Wanda Landowska
Petronel Malan
Sylvia Rachmaninoff
Miklos Schwalb
Hazel Scott
Leonard Rose
Robert Casadesus
Vera Suox
Abe Alem
Leopold Godowsky
Boris Goldovksy
Felix Galimir
Isaac Stern
Salvati Jeno
David Oistrakh
Yehudi Menuhin
Erna Rubinstein
Alexander Schneider
Zino Francescatti
Eugene List
Szymon Goldberg
Brooks Smith
Piano Ensembles
American Piano Trio
Angelica and Rolad
Beller and Robert (names partially obscured)
Galli and [unclear]
[The list continues with many names difficult to fully render from the reproduction]

[At center of right page is a photographic reproduction of the Steinway Artists booklet cover tilted at an angle. The cover shows a rectangular label with the words "STEINWAY ARTISTS" printed in bold capital letters. Surrounding the booklet on the photo are numerous facsimile signatures of artists in ink, appearing as cursive autographs across the page. The booklet image is slightly skewed and has a textured background suggesting a paper surface with pen signatures.]

[To the right and below the booklet image are additional lists of names continuing the roster of Steinway Artists. Among those legible on the far right column and lower right area are:]

Piano Ensembles: Guido Cantelli, Paul Schubert, [some names overlap categories]

STRINGS:
Samuel Dushkin
Isaac Stern
Raya Garbousova
Reginald Kell
Paul Hindemith
Joseph Szigeti
Fritz Kreisler
Yehudi Menuhin
Zino Francescatti
David Oistrakh
Erna Rubinstein
Alexander Schneider
Otto Klemperer
[Note: the strings list mixes soloists and ensembles; some names repeated and some entries are partially obscured]

VOCALISTS:
Maria Callas
Risë Stevens
Jan Peerce
Nadia Boulanger
[and others; many names in the vocalists column are small and faint]

CONDUCTORS:
Vronsky and Babin (listed as First Piano Quartet)
Maurice Abravanel
Arturo Toscanini
Bruno Walter
Leopold Stokowski
George Szell
Erich Leinsdorf
Rafael Kubelik
Bernard Herrmann
Thomas Beecham
[and more; many conductor names are present]

[At the bottom right of the page is the Steinway logo, a small lyre-like emblem, followed by:]

Steinway
THE INSTRUMENT OF THE IMMORTALS

[Footer on left page]
etude — october — 1956

[End of transcription.]

Description of non-textual images:
- Central right-page photograph: Angled reproduction of a booklet cover labeled STEINWAY ARTISTS in a bold rectangular label. The booklet is shown against a light background and bears numerous handwritten signatures in cursive across its surface, some overlapping the label. The image looks like a signed presentation copy with autographs of many artists.
- Small Steinway logo at lower right: stylized lyre/harp emblem above the word "Steinway."

Note: The left-hand page contains many small classified ad listings in narrow columns; some items and small-type lines were not fully legible in the reproduction and have been transcribed to the best readable extent. If you would like, I can provide a higher-resolution crop of any specific area to improve accuracy and transcribe remaining small print verbatim.
You will enjoy music far more
...if you know what to listen for

DAVID OISTRAKH
plays BEETHOVEN'S VIOLIN CONCERTO in D major
MUSICAL PROGRAM NOTES BY G. WALLACE WOODWORTH,
Professor of Music, Harvard University

EMIL GILELS
plays MENDELSSOHN'S PIANO CONCERTO No. 1 in G minor
(And the Kroll Quartet plays MENDELSSOHN'S OCTET FOR STRINGS)
MUSICAL PROGRAM NOTES BY THOMAS SCHERMAN

ALFRED WALLENSTEIN
conducts BRAHMS' SYMPHONY No. 2 in D major
Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra
MUSICAL PROGRAM NOTES BY THOMAS SCHERMAN

LEONARD BERNSTEIN
conducts TCHAIKOVSKY'S PATHETIQUE SYMPHONY
The Stadium Concerts Symphony Orchestra
MUSICAL PROGRAM NOTES BY MR. BERNSTEIN

AS A DEMONSTRATION

You can obtain any one of these double-disc

Music-
Appreciation
Recordings

FOR ONLY $1.00

(REGULAR PRICE FOR EACH $3.90)

SUGGESTION: A ONE-MONTH TRIAL SUBSCRIPTION

THE recent MUSIC-APPRECIATION selections, described above feature artists recognized throughout the music world as outstanding. Because each of these recordings demonstrates, in a particularly exciting way, the MUSIC-APPRECIATION RECORDS idea, we will be happy to send you your choice of any one of them for only $1.00.

The regular price of each of these double-disc recordings is $3.90 (plus a small mailing charge). Should you want to receive other great works of music performed and analyzed in this way, you can allow this one-month trial to continue for as short or as long a time as you please. If, however, the idea of these Musical Program Notes, after the demonstration, does not come up to your expectations, you may cancel immediately.

If you decide to continue you will not be obligated to take any specified number of records. A different work is announced in advance each month, described interestingly by Deems Taylor. As a subscriber you may take only those you are sure you want for your permanent record library.

THE SENSIBLE PLAN:

1. YOU RECEIVE THE COMPLETE PERFORMANCE OF A GREAT WORK OF MUSIC WITH AN OUTSTANDING ARTIST, ORCHESTRA OR CONDUCTOR ON A 12-INCH 33 1/3 R. P. M. RECORD

2. AND IT IS ACCOMPANIED (WHEN YOU WANT IT) BY MUSICALLY ILLUSTRATED PROGRAM NOTES—THAT IS, A 10-INCH RECORD PRESENTING AN ABSORBING COMMENTARY FILLED WITH MUSICAL ILLUSTRATIONS TO ENHANCE YOUR ENJOYMENT AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE MUSIC

PLEASE RETURN ONLY IF YOU HAVE A 33 1/3 R.P.M. RECORD PLAYER

Music-Appreciation Records
c/o Book-of-the-Month Club, Inc.
345 Hudson Street, New York 14, N. Y.

Please send me at once the 12-inch 33 1/3 R.P.M. Demonstration Record and 10-inch Musical Program Notes indicated below, together with the Music-Appreciation Records Trial Subscription for which I enclose $1.00. I understand that the demonstration subscription will continue at my request and that I may cancel at any time. If I do not notify you within the trial period, you may continue to bill me for the regular price of $3.90 for each double-disc recording shipped. All records will be shipped at an extra small mailing charge. (Please print plainly)

Please locate record desired by number box
[ ] Beethoven's Violin Concerto
[ ] Mendelssohn's Piano Concerto
[ ] Brahms' Symphony No. 2
[ ] Tchaikovsky's "Pathétique" Symphony

NAME (Please Print Plainly)
Mr. ____ Mrs. ____ Miss ____

ADDRESS ______________________________________

CITY ___________________ ZONE NO. ____ STATE ______

MAR 60

Description of non-textual images:
- Four small black-and-white portrait photographs appear next to the musician names/entries: each shows a person either playing an instrument or conducting (one shows a violinist, one a pianist, one a conductor at a podium, one a conductor gesturing). These are small rectangular photos used as part of the listings.
- Near the lower left is an illustration showing two 12-inch phonograph records overlapping, with a patterned record sleeve beneath them.
- There are hand-drawn blue-ink doodles (leaf/branch and arrow-like shapes) in the left margin of the page.